---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-5771734120874740627"
title: "Absense Note"
slug: "absense-note"
publishedDate: "2009-07-04T04:45:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

Haven't been updating my blog for at least a month. I have been busy with many
things lately. Our company, [InRev ](http://in-rev.com/)has also made its
journey to the third quarter and everyone is excited, with the fear within
which our team has learnt to dominate already. The word "start up" has been a
cliches for me. Everywhere I go, I keep seeing a banner saying :
"Entrepreneurs or Start UP." And I find myself grouped among them. Trying to
make your stand in a crowd is never so easy.

  

Not to mention my presence in the [twitter](http://twitter.com/bexdeep), where
I have made many friends and learnt a lot. Thanks to all of you for sharing,
listening and off-course _RTing_ :). Writing a blog in itself has become not
only a passion for me, but also a way to outlet my vision to bring a better
future. There are many friends along with my, moving forward with such
determination to make a difference, which I salute and deeply admire. I wish,
I had time to write to my blog often. But in my absence I have almost written
many blog in other sites of which I have made no track of. Few to start with
my own company's blogging portal, [Global
Thoughtz](http://www.globalthoughtz.com/), [Buzzom
Blog](http://buzzom.com/blog/) and [F-Cube
Blog](http://www.f-cube.us/wordpress/).

  

Now you make ask why so many blogging portal. I think its necessary for each
company to have their blog for each of their product, cause each product has
so many things to talk about. This will also create a path for people to find
their queries answered immediately. A habit of reading that I had gained long
time back has been a very fruitful thing for me, it has not only allowed me to
write better but also think and understand better. Nope I am not trying to
boast but I think its important that being a blogger you need to read a lot to
understand what other's are talking about. Some time, I land up reading about
things of which I have no idea. But the habit has made it easier for me to
grasp the themes and get the moral of it.

  

Phew... it seems I haven't really been writing on my own blog, cause I am not
finding any reason to stop now. But I will. This was just a blog to mark my
re-entry. I have lot to tell my readers about things I have been learning
lately. I hope I will keep the promise. The title should have been "I am
BACK", :) but I guess "Absence Note" is OK.

  

