---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-6618192155768058630"
title: "Act of Priority Shifting"
slug: "act-of-priority-shifting"
publishedDate: "2011-08-18T00:50:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

While I was back in Nepal, I met a very dear friend of mine after a pretty
darn long time. She came to visit me at my house and we had great time
chatting about old days. During our chat, I asked her if we should plan for
something coming this week. She pulled a tattered sheet of torn paper where
she had meticulously drawn a calendar with each box containing her schedules.
I was impressed and embarked upon making my own sheet. We made a plan for
Thursday get together with other friends. I marked in a big letters under my
Thursday box. “5:00 pm Meet Up”  
  
[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-NSnRV2rEnUw/Tky_cbNpiAI/AAAAAAAAA8g/qYKsHBgIjKw/s1600/Favim.com-20045_thumb.jpg)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-NSnRV2rEnUw/Tky_cbNpiAI/AAAAAAAAA8g/qYKsHBgIjKw/s1600/Favim.com-20045_thumb.jpg)  
---  
Source : whicdn.com  
There is always some sense of gratification in planning which is interesting
to ponder upon. Laying out agendas, road-maps and schedules are time consuming
and interesting, only to realize the hard rules of priority shifting. Now I
was home after a long time and that also only for 20 days, so I had simple
agenda but no plan (Don’t confuse PLAN with AGENDA. It’s the same confusion
between IDEA and EXECUTION). Some of the most important were: Being At home,
hanging out with Friends, Taking a Road Trip and meeting some folks according
to priority.  
  
Well, THURSDAY 5:00 PM Meet Up never happened and we had to squeeze last 5/10
minutes to make ourselves available before I left Nepal (This happened at the
nick of time with delicate time sharing and priority shifting – a common term
in design of Operating System :)). So what happened to all that planning and
scheduling? Did the earth change its direction? :) Well, no but what did
change was priority. That happens often in life, priority changes with time
and situation. And the whole act of balancing your way means everything. At
the end of 20 days, I had all my agenda ticked mark, with few missed task
(Remember this, got my agenda fulfilled but missed some task).  
  
Now that demonstrates 20 days demo of your life. Life is often taken as long
journey which I think is an illusion. Your long one year journey is just a dot
in your entire life. Now how important you want to make that dot depends upon
you. If you are skilful you might just be able to stretch that dot into a
line. (This comes from my ongoing exploration about time independent theory of
aging. Which I am planning to write when I get it right:)) Just like 20 days,
life is short with all your agendas and priorities mixed. At the end of your
life, I think you find yourself staring at a list of agendas with Green Tick
and Red Cross marks all over it.  
  
Even after that short 20 days, my days are still on turmoil with priority
shifting. Being an entrepreneur, you have to be able to shift gears and change
at nick of time. I have stopped counting how many times, I have made those
tight turns. Shifting is very important activity because shifting allows you
to align yourself to your agenda. If you miss the shift, you end of losing one
agenda from your list :) unless you find other turn and time to re-align
yourself. Beside the illusion that there are ample opportunities, I try not to
get overwhelmed by it. You just keep hitting and missing things, sometime you
are glad you missed and sometime you are not.  
  
I have a belief that it’s always easy to make the most important decisions of
your life, but really difficult to make less important decisions. The catch is
how do you know what is important and what is not. The goal of PLANNING is not
to get the AGENDA right, but to get the processes aligned and executed
properly. Planning is process dependent activity where you are not concerned
about the agenda but only with processes and minute details of activities and
getting them right. Hence, there is a thin line between PLAN and AGENDA, which
ties them together and is a pretty difficult task to figure that out.  
  
One of my artist friend had told me long time back that getting the right
composition in your painting or photography is very important than getting the
lines or circles or focus correct. And knowing or identifying good composition
is a lifelong activity and realization, never ending. Getting right focus or
straight lines are like getting things planned out. You will have to use right
lenses and right brush strokes to get your content right. You may get a
beautiful picture or painting if you have right plan, but the hard fact behind
the art which is composition is not dependent upon your plan. It has nothing
to do with the quality of your image or quality of your brush strokes or
focus.  
  
That is why it’s so difficult to understand the link between agenda and plan,
or idea or execution because those underlining concept are hidden and
mysterious, making the both end tied with random rules (also popularly
expressed as rules of god :)). This is much more complicated than wave-
particle duality which consists of only 2 states; here we are talking about
multiple instances with different form and factor. Welcome to string theory,
where these multiple instances are expressed as a form of energy vibrating at
different frequency. Not a discrete state of particle or wave, but entirely
spread over concept of continuum variable. Sorry for diverting but I had to
make a shift to demonstrate just how important it is to understand the
complication with getting things right.  
  
Therefore, the act of priority shifting is the closest think (I assume) that
can come to realizing your agenda or that can come to realizing your
composition or that come to realizing your idea take form and shape the way
you visualized. But off course, priority shifting always comes with a price of
changing your plan. You won’t get it right the first time as I told you
earlier; the missing link has mysterious nature. That is also why, recently a
popular theory on Failure has been appearing in every innovation blogs because
the closest to getting things right is to try it out.

