---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3792807345791863143"
title: "Add me as a Friend"
slug: "add-me-as-a-friend"
publishedDate: "2008-12-18T07:51:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SSUIt4_agmI/AAAAAAAAATE/O4s2J4n1z80/s400/social+connection.jpg)

Social Structure is based upon the connection between people enhanced by the
technology around them. Starting from saying "hi" to the never ending
relationships between people is amazing. Once the connection is made, it takes
ages for it to break or may be infinity.  

  

Being in a group and having a friend circle is a unique features of Human
being that is studied in any [sociology
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sociology)text books. The happening or making
of a group is quite interesting to look at. Don't criticize me for being OVER
scientific but mathematicians have some how managed to come with certain
approximate ways of defining the social group in numbers.

  

With the rising age of Online Networking groups available, it has become more
easier to analyse the group and make a suggestion on them,NUMERICALLY. Also,
the rising of the [REALITY
SHOWS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reality_television) like [BIGG
BOSS](http://www.biggboss.org/) and others, it has given a [social
analyst](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_analysis) a platform to analyse
the social bonding and a structure.

Let me narrate a short observation that was made in [Discovery
Channel](http://dsc.discovery.com/).

  

It was about a child psychology. A small girl about one or two years old
shopping was shopping in a mall, when she encounters another girl of same age.
They stare for a moment but do not talk to each other.

  

Soon they get accustomed to each others existence and they start to mingle
with each other. After a while they are holding their hands and running around
the shopping complex as if they were meant to be with each other.

  

After a while another girl of the same age enters into the scene with her
mother. Suddenly, the previous girls encounter the new girl. They all stare at
each other but do not respond. The previous girls hold each other hands and
runs away playfully. The new girl then clutches her mothers hand and stares at
them running away as if being left out. This small social experiment was
actually carried out by the Discovery Channel. This small and unconscious
behavior that was being observed says a lot about us.  

  

![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SSUJgd4FNQI/AAAAAAAAATM/lssP_2MDmK4/s400/connectioncloud.png)

These unconscious behaviour is natural not only in child but also in all the
human being. It is the foundation on which social structure are constructed.

  

Finally, what matter is the bond and the strength of the social structure.
Today, many online networks are present, we still have a time to check its
strength and weakness.

  

[LINK ME as Friend.](http://www.facebook.com/people/Deep-Sherchan/739290734)

  

