---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-1341622888041638566"
title: "Aspect of Form and Design"
slug: "aspect-of-form-and-design"
publishedDate: "2009-09-12T15:49:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

Design is an adaptation of features into form - be it anywhere. There two
types of form which comes to my mind- one is with features and the other is
without features. Now, you may say what is the difference between these two
things? But it is the very difference which takes my thoughts from being
practical to highly philosophical.

  

If you look around yourselves, you will find that everything has a form.
Starting from your own hands - five fingers in each hands with specific
reasons. The shape of chair you sit on, the brush you use to brush your teeth,
the mobile you use to communicate and so on. All these human made forms are
designed with every aspect of solving a problem.

  

On the other hand, there are certain forms which are featureless and don't
solve any problems. Music and Art are one of these areas which I am referring
too. Music is a form of your emotions and its an expression of your thoughts,
similar goes to your art. But what is the whole purpose of these form?

  

Cymatic is a particular field of study that is trying to bring the visual form
to sound. But what purpose would that form provide, beside the visual
pleasure. Like energy, form can be converted from one to other. If you look
into these images than you will find that these images find itself into a
fractal community - the subject of randomess and chaos. I told you earlier
that this is a featureless form or you can say in other words a pure form.

  

Nature in itself is a manifestation of energy into form, but for what purpose.
But every natural form are efficient and beautiful at the same time. What
triggers you when you look into these forms below.

  
[![](http://www.world-mysteries.com/sci_cym1.gif)](http://www.world-
mysteries.com/sci_cym1.gif)

Orderness, isn't it? Finding an impeccable order into chaos really triggers
our inner self and makes us feel something strange. Millions of people
confined in a limited space have resulted in a complex and yet organised
society is an order in chaos. Our own economic system which is highly
complicated in itself is an order in chaos. Similarly, our universe is an
order in chaos.

  

Chaos is something we cannot comprehend, therefore even if its a randomly
scattered stars in night, we have delicately grouped each one and have defined
them. Its not only to define form but also create forms that we live to.

  

The theory of form and design is not limited to shapes and sizes but also to
the ideology. Each one of us have their own view and thus there is a conflict
between different ideology - this is chaos. That is why there is war which
tries to bring this whole chaotic ideology into one form - one freedom, one
democracy.

  

Every conversion between form requires a huge struggle - war is one of them.
In case of practical problem solving its the struggling in the mind which
tries to make sense of the chaos and bring out the solution. Problem solving
in itself in an art of finding order in chaos - be it any problem.

  

Though the featureless forms introduces many philosophical problems, their
importance cannot be undermined. But every form or design must be solving
certain delicate problems be it building a house or painting your thoughts.
Art may be the form or solution to the chaotic mind of ours.

