---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-6492323366767600992"
title: "Being an Artist and Being an Entrepreneur is almost similar"
slug: "being-an-artist-and-being-an-entrepreneur-is-almost-similar"
publishedDate: "2011-05-21T03:03:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

Most people flock to big cities to pursue their dreams and struggle for years.
Some people succeed but many still find themselves waiting for the
opportunities. They consider that opportunity is the biggest thing that can
actually leverage their talent or skill. But I believe that it is not always
so.  
  
There are couple of examples that proves that opportunity along is not
everything. Moreover in today’s media hyped world, opportunities are
everywhere from a reality TV shows to your own youtube channel, twitter
account or facebook profile.  
  
If you look around in youtube, there are lots of artists doing great with
their skills and scaling them to offline. This gives a lot of encouragement to
all those people who want to pursue their passion. But there is a reality
beyond pursuing your dreams that everyone considers once in a while. It’s how
far you can take yourself with what you have. Most people get stuck on it and
lose their passion in mid way, and some people simply cannot go beyond what
they already have.  
  
Take examples of hundreds of reality shows winners and contestants who were
given the lime light exposure through grandiose celebration. Most are not even
there in the industry and some have wandered away, and some have simply
disappeared. I am not really the greatest fans of reality shows but they have
their pros and cons. But at the end, all those participants for whatever
reasons they competed starts to make no sense. Along the path of life, all the
opportunity and exposure goes into nothing. I think, they become unable to
push themselves, or they realise that it’s not only about opportunity or
exposure, it’s about honestly and perseverance. And it takes hell lot of time
to become what you really wanted to be.  
  
[![](http://www.starway.org/Titanic/pictures/Titanic%20BW.gif)](http://www.starway.org/Titanic/pictures/Titanic%20BW.gif)  
---  
_Source : starway.org/Titanic/_  
So I have been wondering what it takes to make that jumps which takes you to
the next level. Entrepreneurs also fall into similar category. They start with
some idea and work very hard to seek opportunity and exposure. Along the way,
they fail and some move along, some take another chance and some just
disappears. It takes a lot to work on your ideas and to shape them into the
existing industry. It doesn’t matter, if you are trying to create a new
industry or market, or be part of an industry, the work is equally
challenging.  
  
Most entrepreneurs, similar to an artist cannot push themselves out of where
they already are and get hindered by their own limitation. If we look into
great artists, you will notice that they always make a jump to something
different and take risk to fail. To explore ones horizon is very important for
artists, because they are always in constant pressure to create something
different. No artist has become successful by just making one masterpiece.
It’s the continuum of those master pieces and variety which takes them to
their status. This is true even for entrepreneurs; great entrepreneurs are
always pushing the envelope and innovating to reach that extreme end. Some
fail, but its always worth taking a risk.  
  
So my final note is that, to be what you want to be, you have to scale up and
see the bigger picture and keep struggling. Coz the goal is not always to
reach where you want to, but to make sure that every day is a worthwhile to
live for. Even after more than 2 years of my experience in entrepreneurship, I
may not have reached where I want to and I may have failed in many ways, but
every day was worth living for and making sure that it continues that way is I
think the biggest challenge.Most people query me, why entrepreneurship, I mean
you are a graduated engineer? And honestly, for me I see no difference between
engineers and entrepreneurs, for me both stands for someone trying very hard
to create something and innovate everyday.  
  
No great movie director rests on their previous movie; he/she is continually
working on the next great things. No great musician stop making music coz they
think they have had it, they explore till they die. No great writers stop
writing coz they think they have succeeded. No scientist stop thinking, they
are continually jumping from one problem to other. And no creative
entrepreneurs stop experimenting with ideas, they keep exploring till they
can. Not to settle is hard and a choice has to be made. It’s always up to us
to decide if we want to reach the dream.

