---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-8632226108410276262"
title: "Best of Steve Job from his 1985 interview"
slug: "best-of-steve-job-from-his-1985-interview"
publishedDate: "2010-11-21T11:40:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

In 1985 interview of Steve Jobs with the Playboy magazine, we can see some of
the early vision in regards of Apple's future and business fundamentals. This
was also the time when Apple had build its first MAC. Here are some of the
most inspiring statements from him:  
  

[![](http://www.theapplecollection.com/various/Celebrity/images/think_different.jpg)](http://www.theapplecollection.com/various/Celebrity/images/think_different.jpg)  
---  
Source : theapplecollection.com  
**JOBS:** Companies, as they grow to become multibillion-dollar entities,
somehow lose their vision. They insert lots of layers of middle management
between the people running the company and the people doing the work. They no
longer have an inherent feel or a passion about the products. The creative
people, who are the ones who care passionately, have to persuade five layers
of management to do what they know is the right thing to do.  
  
**JOBS:** What happens in most companies is that you don't keep great people
under working environments where individual accomplishment is discouraged
rather than encouraged. The great people leave and you end up with mediocrity.
I know, because that's how Apple was built. Apple is an Ellis Island company.
Apple is built on refugees from other companies. These are the extremely
bright individual contributors who were troublemakers at other companies.  
  
**JOBS:** There's an old Hindu saying that comes into my mind occasionally:
"For the first 30 years of your life, you make your habits. For the last 30
years of your life, your habits make you." As I'm going to be 30 in February,
the thought has crossed my mind.  

**  
**  

[![](http://gigapple.files.wordpress.com/2010/02/jobsmotorcycle.jpg)](http://gigapple.files.wordpress.com/2010/02/jobsmotorcycle.jpg)

**JOBS:** And I'm not sure. I'll always stay connected with Apple. I hope that
throughout my life I'll sort of have the thread of my life and the thread of
Apple weave in and out of each other, like a tapestry. There may be a few
years when I'm not there, but I'll always come back. And that's what I may try
to do. The key thing to remember about me is that I'm still a student. I'm
still in boot camp. If anyone is reading any of my thoughts, I'd keep that in
mind. Don't take it all too seriously.  
  
If you want to live your life in a creative way, as an artist, you have to not
look back too much. You have to be willing to take whatever you've done and
whoever you were and throw them away. What are we, anyway? Most of what we
think we are is just a collection of likes and dislikes, habits, patterns. At
the core of what we are is our values, and what decisions and actions we make
reflect those values. That is why it's hard doing interviews and being
visible: As you are growing and changing, the more the outside world tries to
reinforce an image of you that it thinks you are, the harder it is to continue
to be an artist, which is why a lot of times, artists have to go, "Bye. I have
to go. I'm going crazy and I'm getting out of here." And they go and hibernate
somewhere. Maybe later they re-emerge a little differently.  
  
**JOBS:** I still don't understand it. It's a large responsibility to have
more than you can spend in your lifetime—and I feel I have to spend it. If you
die, you certainly don't want to leave a large amount to your children. It
will just ruin their lives. And if you die without kids, it will all go to the
Government. Almost everyone would think that he could invest the money back
into humanity in a much more astute way than the Government could. The
challenges are to figure out how to live with it and to reinvest it back into
the world, which means either giving it away or using it to express your
concerns or values.  
  
**JOBS:** No. There are some simple reasons for that. One is that in order to
learn how to do something well, you have to fail sometimes. In order to fail,
there has to be a measurement system. And that's the problem with most
philanthropy—there's no measurement system. You give somebody some money to do
something and most of the time you can really never measure whether you failed
or succeeded in your judgment of that person or his ideas or their
implementation. So if you can't succeed or fail, it's really hard to get
better. Also, most of the time, the people who come to you with ideas don't
provide the best ideas. You go seek the best ideas out, and that takes a lot
of time.  

  

[![](http://www.cultofmac.com/wordpress/wp-
content/uploads/2010/10/Alt_Drawing_Steve_Jobs.jpg)](http://www.cultofmac.com/wordpress/wp-
content/uploads/2010/10/Alt_Drawing_Steve_Jobs.jpg)

**JOBS:** Well, my favorite things in life are books, sushi and.... My
favorite things in life don't cost any money. It's really clear that the most
precious resource we all have is time. As it is, I pay a price by not having
much of a personal life. I don't have the time to pursue love affairs or to
tour small towns in Italy and sit in cafes and eat tomato-and-mozzarella
salad.  
  
Occasionally, I spend a little money to save myself a hassle, which means
time. And that's the extent of it. I bought an apartment in New York, but it's
because I love that city. I'm trying to educate myself, being from a small
town in California, not having grown up with the sophistication and culture of
a large city. I consider it part of my education. You know, there are many
people at Apple who can buy everything that they could ever possibly want and
still have most of their money unspent. I hate talking about this as a
problem; people are going to read this and think, Yeah, well, give me your
problem. They're going to think I'm an arrogant little asshole.  
  
**JOBS:** The minute you have the means to take responsibility for your own
dreams and can be held accountable for whether they come true or not, life is
a lot tougher. It's easy to have wonderful thoughts when the chance to
implement them is remote. When you've gotten to a place where you at least
have a chance of implementing your ideas, there's a lot more responsibility in
that.  
  
Here is another great resource about Steve Jobs Perspective.  

## _[John Sculley On Steve Jobs, The Full Interview
Transcript](http://www.cultofmac.com/john-sculley-on-steve-jobs-the-full-
interview-transcript/63295 "Permanent Link to John Sculley On Steve Jobs, The
Full Interview Transcript")_

  
Source : [tech.fortune.cnn.com](http://tech.fortune.cnn.com/)

