---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-108415921507918085"
title: "Bruce Lee"
slug: "bruce-lee"
publishedDate: "2008-11-26T11:14:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SS2oQV4ZiKI/AAAAAAAAAWM/0A7vT0Pgf5s/s400/tao-
of-jeet-kune-
do.jpg)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SS2oQV4ZiKI/AAAAAAAAAWM/0A7vT0Pgf5s/s1600-h/tao-
of-jeet-kune-do.jpg)

Yes. [Bruce Lee](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bruce_Lee). Remember all the
punches and kicks in his all time hits movies. But why am I talking about him.
Am I going to talk about his movies? No, I am not.  

  

I am going to say about his philosophies which have been so many times
projected in his fighting styles. By the way, he also wrote a book. Many may
not know but he had a unique way of thinking about the life and his art of
fighting. Let me put forwards his thinking, in my own words.

  

He believed in efficiency and rejected any amount of redundancy that affected
the performance. He believed that there is no one style which is correct.
Everyone has their own unique way and must harness those skills rather waste
their time in doing something that is not efficient at all.

  

There are many fighting styles carrying their own norms and values. Every
style starts by assuming something. But slowly those assumption are taken as a
Gospel truth, and people make them into rules which cannot be broken. But,
without understanding the key meaning of style and just following the style,
blind folded is not right. It's wrong.

  

Everyone must be able to express in their own way, without any binding. That
is what free thinking means, without basing upon any philosophies. Also, the
habit of people of categorising themselves causes strain in their thinking,
which must not be the case.

  

![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SS2oGaBowNI/AAAAAAAAAWE/sTBPDvawxaI/s400/BruceLeecard.jpg)

In case of fighting, we all human being has 2 hands and 2 legs, which makes
only one way of fighting and no other. He believed that in fighting, you must
be able to use every part of your body efficiently as you can and not be
restricted by rules or fancy styles. For example, trying to fight like a
monkey is not efficient, because you are not monkey, and you have your own
way. Once, in his interview he commented that, he could make complicated moves
and hit but those complicated moves have not significance in the effect of
punch but instead may affect the total potential of punch.

  

So, what I am tyring to say is that, forget all the rules and regulation and
think from the scratch and be free. If you come to the same conclusion like
everyone than so it be, but there is lots of chances that you may come with
something new.

  

Make yourself like a water, free and flowing, taking the shape of any vessel
that you are put in. Be free in thinking that is what I meant.

  

Follow the link for further understanding of
[Bruce](http://www.shawnolson.net/a/55/bruce-lees-philosophy.html)[ Lee's
](http://www.shawnolson.net/a/55/bruce-lees-
philosophy.html)[philosophies](http://www.shawnolson.net/a/55/bruce-lees-
philosophy.html).

  

