---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-8330038044355565454"
title: "Building a Business is like Writing a Novel."
slug: "building-a-business-is-like-writing-a-novel"
publishedDate: "2011-03-17T12:21:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

First question! Have you ever tried writing a Novel? You should because it
will teach you to think from different perspective. I had written one when I
was in college, and it took me more than a year to complete the story. I was
trying to narrate a story around an adventurous journey which I and my good
friends had undertaken. It was easy, in a sense that I was aware of the story
and had some knowledge about the characters that I was trying to describe. But
within those time period, I went through lots of ups and downs which were
affecting my story line and my characters. This was happening unknowingly and
I seemed to have no control over it.  
  

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_QZZXM8ccfXs/S8lx2D9n4qI/AAAAAAAAA8c/jxjVwnqolLM/s320/writer.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_QZZXM8ccfXs/S8lx2D9n4qI/AAAAAAAAA8c/jxjVwnqolLM/s320/writer.jpg)

While writing and describing one character I would unknowingly portray the
character as something else I had no clue of. Somehow the story had its own
life and it was urging me to change things. This was a strange and a beautiful
feeling.  
  
Now what has it to do with building a business? When you start your company
for the first time, you are unaware of the characters and their nature. You
are unaware of the story and its climax. You are just finding your ways and
the only way to figure things out is to make decision and move ahead. You make
wrong decisions and you sometime get lucky. But that is how you learn. Similar
to the writing experience, the experience around building a company in a way
changes you and your perspective.  
  
When you start with nothing but a passion to do something, you are unaware of
the market forces and the eco-system. The eco-system is even not visible to
you at the beginning. It unfolds itself slowly and sometime painfully. At
every instance, you just need to have faith and that’s all. Even the
characters in the eco-system are undefined. You are always on the dark side
unable to make quick decision due to the lack of visibility. But as time
passes by you begin to see the eco-system opening itself to you. This happens
when you have built enough credibility in the market. Now when you begin to
see the entire eco-system unfold, there are two things that can happen. Either
it will be something that you predicted or it will be entirely different. But
you can always move on and that’s the whole beauty.  
  
Novel is also similar. You start with fresh characters and with time they
mature to reveal their true identity giving whole story a shape and climax.
Even in writing, either you end up writing exactly what you wanted or
something entirely different.  
  
At the heart of building business are the people. You are always affecting
people and their ways of living. To introduce your-self to already existing
market needs much more than just passion. You have to seriously justify your
existence and your value to the society. In case of failure to show your
value, you are sure to be lost in the crowd of that 99% failure list. This is
why the failure rate of entrepreneurship is so high. It’s very difficult to
find people working to add value to the society.  
  
Each story has main characters that are leading the way. Each eco-system has a
leader that is leading the way. If you want to survive than you will have to
justify against these leaders. If your eco-system is healthy one than you will
have helpful leaders otherwise, you are literally on war. But I think it
doesn’t always have to be this way.  
  
Value is the key to sustainable business or company. Absence of value can only
take you so far, value is the one that will define your space on the Global
Market. Similarly each novel has a story that defines the life, in absence of
this definition story has no meaning at all.  
  
Just check out my other post which I had written some year back. [Fearful
Consumer Market](http://www.bexdeep.com/2009/04/fearful-consumer-market.html).

