---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-4428446019903822284"
title: "Business Intelligence"
slug: "business-intelligence"
publishedDate: "2009-03-04T03:43:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

[](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/Sa55jiQLoAI/AAAAAAAAAhk/g7QDxefkvcc/s1600-h/Demo.png)

These days every system is getting smarter. Smartness is the measure of
intelligent decisions. A smart device would mean something that can give
decision with precision. Along with hardware and software systems, a business
organisation is like a living organisms. Thus, if we start applying all the
rules and conditions of survival of [living
organism,](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organism) to a [business
organisation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_organisation), then it
turns out that it works. Amazing!! (But lets not go into it now. The point I
was trying to make is smart decision guarantees survival. )  

[](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/Sa5uKjZxKWI/AAAAAAAAAhc/Uj46MVxF8RU/s1600-h/BI.png)

  

So, how do we monitor the processes running in an organisation and make a
correct decision. I don't want to make a lengthy statement on organisational
behaviour, but in short, every business processes needs to be optimized for
efficient operations. One way in which it can be done is through the use of
[Business Intelligence](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_intelligence)
(BI) Software. In brief, BI is the automation of the long and lengthy human
involved processes.

  

Let see a simple case scenario :

  

  

![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/Sa5uKjZxKWI/AAAAAAAAAhc/Uj46MVxF8RU/s400/BI.png)

  

The above diagram shows how a business professionals would go about trying to
make a proper decision. Though the system is automated, there is lot of human
factors involved which causes the delay and inefficiency in the system. Some
of the delays in the systems are as follows:

  

1\. Delay in the process of the request, from the business professional.

2\. Inability of the business professionals to access the real data.

3\. Communication gap between the two parties which is governed by the
inevitable human factor.

4\. Dependencies on human process, definitely decreases reliability and
accuracy.

  

There is need for a revolution, like the one that happened during the
[Industrial Revolution](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Industrial_Revolution). A
complete automation of the time lagging human processes. May be we can call it
"Information Revolution". Some of the lists of revolutions that we need in
Business Intelligences Software are as belows:

  

1. High integration or standardisation of data.

2. Simple Pluggable Technology which would talk to any system.

3. Useful Data Analytics and Reporting services.

4. Customizable functions or processes.

5. Variety of ways to export and share the reports. (Excel etc)

6. Multiple Levels of Reports. (Explained [here](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2008/11/multiple-levels-of-reports.html)) 

7. Highly efficient user experience.

  

Among all the points, the 7th one has a higher weight as what matters at the
end is not the innovative technologies or complex systems but rather
satisfying user experience. Overall, the software must be able to integrate
useful tools and avoid distracting features which add no value to the business
processes.

  

But, can it be done with the technology that are available today? I would say,
yes we can. We need to just focus into usefulness and don't get overwhelmed by
the unnecessary features and make the software bully. It has to be the easiest
thing to use on the face of earth. [Google ](http://www.google.co.in/)seems to
be following this mantra. No matter how simple it looks, we all know behind
this simplicity exist a complex engine. It has to be similar to that.

  

With these challenges and thoughts, we at InRev have been struggling hard
enough to come up with an efficient system. We have called it "[ InRev Scoop
](http://www.in-rev.com/Products/scoop.html)". We have been allowing the users
to interact with the system and give their feedback, and it's inspiring to get
all the good thoughts and suggestions from the people. Till the date, the
system has been tinkered to get the most of user experience. You can check it
out [here](http://scoop.in-rev.com/).

[](http://scoop.in-rev.com/)

  

The new ways of doing business it obvious through the creation of experience
in the user which would increase the use of the products. As Plato said :

" The beginning is the most important part of the work."

  

