---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-6203449712501779466"
title: "Concept of Healthy Community Design"
slug: "concept-of-healthy-community-design"
publishedDate: "2011-07-17T13:20:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

  

****

I have always indulged myself observing people move through their life and
make a living for them. The strange dependence that human beings have with
each other is interesting to observe. But in this strange society, we all are
bound by moral values, laws and expectations. I can never completely
understand this mere presence of poverty that stares and the meaning of it. If
it even means anything to be poor in a society and make your way through
struggle, or born rich and stumble through pitfalls of social disaster. The
examples of such scenarios are abundant in our society.

  

[![](http://sscl.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/groupfacilitation.jpg)](http://sscl.files.wordpress.com/2010/06/groupfacilitation.jpg)  
---  
Source : sscl.wordpress.com  
  
I consider myself very lucky to have spent my childhoods in between urban and
rural areas. I was exposed to city life and rural lifestyle parallel. This has
made my experience rich in those terms. More importantly, I could very much
say that the society that I was living in was an experimental one. It was the
convergence and harmony between village and urban technology, living hand in
hand. I lived in the midst of Agricultural Research Centre which had at that
time, the most advance technology for research and science purpose.  This was
during 90s. Later in my life, I was told that the whole project was evolved to
help the community make their living sustainable.

  

You can imagine that this had tremendous impact on how I wanted to live my
life in future - in the midst of research and technology, helping society
figure out a way to be efficient. Interestingly, though it was 90s, I happen
to touch and feel laptop before PCs. My father would bring this foldable DOS
OS laptop and I would watch him type in WordStar. The first command that I
ever learned was the BACKSPACE key, which my father would repetitively use. At
one instance, I was so eagerly watching him type that, I hurriedly pressed the
key before he did, which amused him a lot and made him run to my mother to
explain the drama. (Similar incident happened once I took a scissor and hold a
cotton to clean my wounds. It was something taught in our first-aid class and
it amused him more, thinking I would opt for studying Medicine in future. But
BACKSPACE key was more interesting than a scissor and cotton. ) These days, he
often consults with me his problems on outlook mail and excels sheets. J
These things make life very interesting.

  

Anyway coming back to my main point, I would sometime visit research labs full
of PCs and get lost observing the FISH theme screen saver. It was the most
inspiring and interesting time, which would remain with me forever. The house
I lived in was simple and well equipped with furniture and resource supply, I
never thought there was anything more that I would need in my life. The place
was beautiful with changing climate, which made it all interesting. There were
times, when the sky would be filled with brown flies and frogs all set to feed
on them. We also had 7 important channels, delivered to our house through DISH
antennae.  All I wanted was to work like my father and contribute to make this
society efficient in terms of economy and culture.  Ohh!! How I miss those
days and simplicity. But I guess, I had to move on to explore the horizon. So
among my many friends I was the first one to live the place and move to city
for my further degree. Since then, I have never found existence of any
community as vibrant and efficient.

  

This is what brings to me the main topic - Struggle to build an efficient and
growing community. Its bliss these days to even find any, though there
existence is rare. After almost 3 years of start-up experience and struggle, I
can see why it’s so difficult to have such systems. There are so many
variables and difficulties in establishing a profitable business of value with
efficiency. I guess more time is spent in experimenting and learning what
works and what doesn’t and you need to change as it comes around. I find the
management of resources and involving them into goal-oriented project, the
main challenge. You have to look at the value your company is presenting to
the business and how you are doing it. You need to communicate with potential
partners to create better opportunity and scalable business. During all this,
you need to clearly know the distracting factors too, because that is
important for growth and sustainability and those factors have potential to
make it or break your company. Similarly with the community, there are many
factors which encourage the members of the community to participate and move
alone, but negligence to counter the distracting factor could heavily falter
the growth and demise of the community. I think that is what happened to the
place that I lived during my childhood, though the place exists, I hear it’s
not as interesting and vibrant as before.

  

So the final thought, how can we build a sustainable community? Can they be
designed? If so how? Here are few thoughts of mine. First of all, the
landscape of the community is very important because that is going to define a
lot of things like economy, culture and population. The space where people
live is very important, as they affect the emotions of people. I believe that
space can affect human’s senses in lot many ways then we can imagine. Along
with landscape comes the important role of resources and there management. A
community is a combination of people with variety of skills and interest,
which can be channelized for betterment of the society. Any rejection of such
human resource could result into migration. Then comes the efficient economy
of the society and how they can be managed without much lose. The continuous
flow of financial transaction between people is one of the parameters to
consider the health of the society. Off course the culture is important which
binds people together with the feeling of oneness and one. Absence of culture
could result in frustration and dissociation of the community because
community is the higher realization of individual which is as important as
individual.

  

The last statement could be controversial as it raises the debate between
individualism and communal behaviour, but there is some practical implication
where both fail to answer deep rooted question of life and society. Being
open-minded can only be the way to resolve this issue rather than following
some hardcore philosophies.

  

As you can see, the question of community design is important in today’s
society. It can come in a form of an organisation design or community design.
I believe both follow similar line of thought.

