---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-5407474529233857516"
title: "Creative Product Development Process"
slug: "creative-product-development-process"
publishedDate: "2011-07-15T23:46:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

  

****

An interesting topic, as this means a lot to me and my every instances of
life. Product is far more different then Service, in terms of engagement with
customers and expectations. I find it similar to animated movies versus actor-
acted movies. There are certain freedoms in making animated movies, due to
freedom of choice of characters, whereas in case of actor-acted movies you
have to deal with the personality of the actor before you even go to explore
the character of the story. I chuckle every time I remember one of the
statement from George Lucas, “I like working with animated characters as I
hate dealing with people.” Off course, that cannot be the only reason for
making animated series, because at the end it’s about great story telling. In
case of products and services, it’s all about solving problems and adding
value. What differentiates is how you want to approach it.

  

[![](http://www.brainpickings.org/wp-
content/uploads/2009/04/pureprocess2.png)](http://www.brainpickings.org/wp-
content/uploads/2009/04/pureprocess2.png)  
---  
Source : brainpickings.org  
  
So let me dwell into the aspect of product development process. It starts, I
think, with etch.   Etch, is important because it definitely shows you the
area of problem and a point where value can be added. The greater the ETCH,
the great the value the product can add.

  

Once that is identified, the whole system starts to reveal itself in terms of
system variables and controls variables. And this whole process is gratifying
in its own terms. But I am not going go through all these process of
identifying variables and implementing them as a form and function in terms of
software or hardware. What I want to explore is this development process,
where the product is still not matured but is on its way of becoming the
required solutions.

  

Imagine, designing a building (building structure is the perfect example for
me in terms of creativity and engineering solutions). It has aspect of
aesthetics and ingenuity of engineered solutions, making a perfect combo for
any kind of analysis. And the variable becomes the flow of nature, resources
and humans in and out. But there is one aspect missing and that’s the mass
production. Unlike products, building becomes the defining aspect of itself
attracting visitors to marvel its engineering feet. But product on the other
hand, reaches to mass through calculated production and supply chain. It has
aspect of packaging, pricing, distribution, sales and so on. On the contrary,
modern web solutions or products are much like designing buildings rather than
products. It’s about attracting visitors and maintaining their flow in the
system. Traditionally software products were too packaged and distributed, but
now it’s much simpler to reach out to mass.  Today, internet is a platform
where you need to build a software or solution, similar to constructing a
house. It has to be aesthetically appealing, functionally simple and lot of
value addition.

  

Difference between buildings and software lies in the risk that you can take
on, which means you cannot afford to do lots of trial and error tests with
building as with web platforms. In case of buildings, the evolution happens in
slow and steady way, encouraged with lots of off shore research and testing.
So I would like to see, web product design as more than just designing a
building, but designing a community and a society. Because in case of
designing landscapes and community you have lot more flexibility, in terms of
experimenting with elements of society. It has to have every aspect of a
community, especially after the social media revolution.

  

Now, why is it that it’s a creative process and not just stacking of
functionality? Well, it doesn’t have to be. Back to my saying, that it depend
how you approach and the vision behind it. But I am more inclined into taking
it as a creative process, as that happens to be my passion.

  

So, can I say it’s like movie making experience? Hmm may be not entirely. But
there are certain aspect of film making that can be implemented into the
product development cycle, especially the scripting part. Script writing is
certainly the blue print of films, so I think even a good product would have
more benefit if a basic script can be formed in terms of actors, plots and
functionality. Lately, I have tried to go through some of the standard scripts
of movies, I found them expressive in terms of scene description and how that
helps to take the story forward. In similar, way a good description of a
product feature in terms of user perspective and system perspective would be
great. May be characters could be users, interaction and system services.
Ahh... ya it’s all so interesting to feel about this creative process of
dealing with lot of variables, but it’s better not to get into process so much
that you forget the main pictures, that solving the problem.

  

Don't forget to see the post on [GOD
COMPLEX](http://www.bexdeep.com/2011/07/tim-harford-trial-error-and-god-
complex.html), its a great talk on trial and error process.

