---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-263312297701460568"
title: "Data Visualisation"
slug: "data-visualisation"
publishedDate: "2008-11-16T00:40:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

[](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SR_sIKAoVdI/AAAAAAAAAQ8/rm02Q0atNSc/s1600-h/tableau.jpg)

I have been talking about analysis and all the ways in which it can been done.
Read the data. Manipulate the data. Apply the [statistical
tools](http://www.fao.org/docrep/W7295E/w7295e08.htm) to the data. And Then
finally analyse it. But what do you think is the most important things when
most of the numerical processing has been done. Hmmm. Graphs! Charts! and all
the Graphical Tools.  

  

Yes. That is what I find the most interesting part. When finally all your hard
work in numbers come to live in the pictures. As it is said : Pictures speak
more than the word. So, I am going to list most of the powerful visualisation
tools that will take your data into the next heights.

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SR_ielzb2XI/AAAAAAAAAQk/DhhtBqkvmNQ/s400/VACET.jpg)

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

<http://www.vacet.org/index.html>  

This looks very highly sophisticated visualisation tools totally based on the
research. Its mainly a high-end analytics.  

  

![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SR_kux0d8bI/AAAAAAAAAQs/9scF8NZc6Lw/s400/matlab.jpg)

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

[http://www.mathworks.com/ ](http://www.mathworks.com/)  

This is one of the most popular and great software, popular among the
engineers. It has a great visualisation tools. Further, it is more than just a
graphical tool. It embeds almost many engineering system designing issue like
[Control System](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_system), [Signal
Analysis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signal_processing) etc.  

  

<http://www.sas.com/>![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SR_pwCiZ8RI/AAAAAAAAAQ0/U9zQDzhDKLM/s400/matlab.jpg)

  

[SAS](http://www.sas.com/) is one of the most powerful[ Statistical Analysis
Tools](http://www.sas.com/) having all the necessary mathematical tools and
visualisation. Though too costly, its an asset for any analytics company.

  

![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SR_sIKAoVdI/AAAAAAAAAQ8/rm02Q0atNSc/s400/tableau.jpg)

<http://www.tableausoftware.com/>  

  

It is a great visualisation software. If you go through its presentation
slide, it will low your mind, with how much you can do just by clicking.

  

  

Well, these are few among the many. Ya I know, my choices have been very
biased. I have not listed from other sectors like[ GIS
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_information_system)(Geographical
Information System) , which is related to
[meteorologica](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meteorology)l and other
geographical related information. I also have not listed on [Scientific
Research](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientific_method) based Information
for [Signal Analysis](http://www.sas.com/),[ ](http://www.sas.com/)[System
Analysis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Systems_analysis) etc.

  

In my view, [Data
Visualisation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_visualization) is a field
with very promising future. With so much of information available in the
Internet, people are confused on how to make best use of it. In future we will
see more innovation in this technology.

  

