---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-7205822348032182060"
title: "Demand of an Individual"
slug: "demand-of-an-individual"
publishedDate: "2012-08-20T09:14:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

  

For some time now, I have been thinking to stop writing and give full focus
only to thoughts. Take it deeper into my conscious so that it remains safe and
sound. I was inspired by the idea of **[ElizabethGilbert: Your elusive
creative genius](http://www.ted.com/talks/elizabeth_gilbert_on_genius.html).
**The idea is to not let thoughts overwhelm you, so that you can be patience
and calm, take my time and still find the thoughts waiting for me.

  

So this one particular thought “Demand of an Individual” had been hitting me
hard again and again. I had taken enough time with it to deal with it deeply
and thoroughly. Once I even went far enough to pick a pen and start writing
but, I would soon lose interest on it. So I had recklessly put it aside. The
problem is that most often, this immense passion comes, passes through you and
leaves you strangled. Hence I wanted to know that this idea was not going to
do that. So let’s see where this will take me.

  

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-9rHskQh7xvQ/UDJh_XYbI4I/AAAAAAAABH8/i3nDgSZai1Y/s400/urban_prism_by_nancy_eckels___abstract__contempora_abstract_art__abstract__0f993c45e573c733bbed0ea6edb90780.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-9rHskQh7xvQ/UDJh_XYbI4I/AAAAAAAABH8/i3nDgSZai1Y/s1600/urban_prism_by_nancy_eckels___abstract__contempora_abstract_art__abstract__0f993c45e573c733bbed0ea6edb90780.jpg)  
---  
Urban Prism by Nancy Eckels - abstract, contemporary, modern art,[ painting by
artist Nancy Eckels](http://www.dailypainters.com/paintings/230459/Urban-
Prism-by-Nancy-Eckels-abstract-contemporary-modern-art-painting/Nancy-Eckels)  
  
[WARNING: Thoughts expressed are conditional and result ofthought experiment.]

**  
**

**Demand of anIndividual**

  

The idea arose while I was walking down the street and looking at people
around, walking through the malls and by being surrounded by millions of
THINGS. So far, I have been living a frugal life, I would say. Not trying to
surround myself with too many things and instead remove things not worth. It
could be hobby, or habit or interest. The idea was to focus and remain that
way and challenge the economics of human civilization.

  

But then here I was asking myself again and again, about demand of an
Individual and how this individual is the symbol of modern economy. Everything
around you is designed and created to full fill that particular demand of an
Individual.

  

You get up early in the morning and expect electricity to be on, your wi-fi to
be on, your latest messages and updates to be available on your finger tips,
your email browser to operate as efficiently as possible.There should be no
lag while your facebook is refreshing else you will cursethe developers at
least few times a day (especially Mark). Remember you still have not got up
from your bed and there is already millions of expectation right with in few
minutes. Hence to fulfill this initial expectation, millions have been
invested on telecommunication infrastructures, data centers and thousands of
engineers hired at high pay to just give you that initial satisfaction when
you get up. Once you are on your feet, you expect hot water running, your last
night’s dishes being cleaned off. When you go to shop, you should be expecting
a packet of milk which should not by any chance be out of stock already.You
want your morning tea to be perfect. Once you are on the roads, you want roads
to be clean, less traffic, less noise, low fuel price and all that.

  

You see, the demand keeps rising through out the day. I have only started
this, but I guess you all know where I am going with this. By the dawn of the
day, you return home waiting to be entertained and amused. You spend time
watching TV, you expect something interesting to be there. You log into social
networks, just in case you might find something interesting. With all the day
gone by, you would want every night be sleeping care free and without any
problems.

  

This is just one individual’s daily expectation, basics of living in our
modern society. But not everyone has that capacity to demand in this world.
This capacity to demand varies across the population. Do you know what I
think; the percentage of people who has this capacity to demand might beonly
around 1/2 %. But somehow the whole of population work day and night to make
sure that these expectations are meet. Our world is really interesting if you
look from this perspective.

**  
**

**Origin of Poverty**

This is where I would want to link my other thought which I have been keeping
safe in my conscious- The Foundation of Human Civilization (I also sometime
want to think this has the Origin of Poverty). From my weird assumption, we
started as a dependable group of people with healthy relationship and
responsibility. But then greed turned this into a civilization with contrast
between 1%, slaves and audience (You obviously know which segment I am
referring to and why Audience? Because audience is a pseudo 1%).  

**  
**

**Human values**

But why am I pondering upon these things? Because this brings me to another
important question - “what is the value of Human Being?” Dowe have so much
right to demand from our own civilization and if so why? Why is it not
possible for us to balance responsibility and create healthy society? Tough
questions, isn’t it?  

For some reason, this madness of our world is the model of our future
civilization. An engine designed to keep all of us working hard day and night,
to simply sustain. As a result of our hard work, we expect to be treated well
accordingly. If an individual is not demanding, he is an outlier to the
society – a hermit, a recluse or an outcast.

  

I am leaving lots of things to question and suggestions. But somehow, this
demand of an individual is the driving factor of our modern civilization and
everything is surrounding it. But with all model this one also scales to
demand of a community, demand of a nation. And in every demand there are 1%,
audience and a slave.

  
[Update: Thanks to Jeewan for proof reading :)]

