---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-4083531616985587336"
title: "dEsigning a FuTure"
slug: "designing-a-future"
publishedDate: "2012-08-25T13:35:00.001-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

We are surrounded by designs - Forms and Functions. And this is area that
hugely interests me to think about and talk about. It has most of element
which engages one’s analytical and artistic mind. Things like your furniture
you use, house you stay are the everyday objects which we deal with. Hence a
proper design is very essential. But these everyday objects have such a large
scope in our lives that the problem never seems to be completely solved by
anyone. There are always a newly designed chairs or newly designed house which
seems to solve our certain aspect of problems. Because this deals with both
art and science, the scope for any designers to work on the problem is huge.  
  
[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-M5KIILBEyBc/UDk26rO00LI/AAAAAAAABIM/VUHuOBXJSr4/s1600/designing-
a-
future.jpg)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-M5KIILBEyBc/UDk26rO00LI/AAAAAAAABIM/VUHuOBXJSr4/s1600/designing-
a-future.jpg)  
---  
Image Source :  [http://www.designindaba.com](http://www.designindaba.com/)  
  
For example, we know that every industrial designer takes on the design of a
chair. And everyone has their own take on it. It gives designers an
opportunity to play with an idea around the chair. In parallel to the physical
object design, we have something called digital design.  
  
There are different aspects of digital designs as well. Just like chairs, we
have task management apps, project management apps, email apps and so on.
These apps are like fundamental forms of digital life and everyone uses one.
Now in near future social networking apps are also going to be a must have
app. There are thousands of productivity apps dealing with different aspect of
it. Similarly there are many designers still working on that next great Email
Apps.  
  
Social networking sites have a lot of issue and this is mainly because of the
domination of these platforms by only few. Facebook, LinkedIn or Twitter will
never encourage anyone to play around with their platforms and take away the
users. Unlike email, where anyone can own a separate instance of their email
server, no one can have different aspect of their social graph in the
internet. It has to be either Facebook or Twitter.  
  
This is one of the biggest challenges in the future of our digital life that
needs a solutions. The major problem is that these different social networks
don’t communicate with each other like emails do. It has different concepts
all together. For example you can send a mail from hotmail to any other mail
server. But you cannot send a message from Facebook to Twitter or LinkedIn.  
  
Now this might sound weird that why would one want to do that. But this also
shows a difference in the way human personal identity exists in the Internet.
It exists in the form of ownership with other networks or platforms. You
cannot have a different network of your own. We are already seeing an issue
with the existence of one powerful social network platforms. The ownership,
the privacy and data issue. One company owning and governing major part of
your digital life doesn’t sound fair.  
  
Can this be changed? I am not sure. Other networks like Diaspora seem to have
tried to solve it with no avail. I think the solution can lie in the
framework. For example every email you send or receive comes in a standard
protocol; hence all the services providing such services comply with it. This
way there is standardization and variety of application and companies can
exist around it – hotmail, yahoo, gmail and so many other independent.  
  
But in case of social network, there is no standard. The standards are only
fixed and controlled by Facebook and Twitter. There is no protocol defined for
it. But I believe that there needs to be a defined protocol. This way, many
services can exist and we can have lot more innovations. The idea is not
straight forward but there can certainly be a solution to it. I am not sure
how it will look and feel. But I am certain that such innovation will happen,
as we are already seeing many independent companies tring to solve it.

