---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3336556729413181217"
title: "Economy and Analysis of Economy"
slug: "economy-and-analysis-of-economy"
publishedDate: "2008-11-12T05:47:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

[](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRrsDg1_-bI/AAAAAAAAAP4/t_zLqrHMju0/s1600-h/DurableVsNonDurable+PPI.jpg)

2008 saw a great [Financial Crisis.](http://www.moolanomy.com/866/what-caused-
the-financial-crisis-of-2008/) Not to mention all the commotion, on the future
of world economy. How did it happen and why wasn't it anticipated? For last
few months, I have been talking on the tools to analyse, about the analytics
and its power to understand the variables and the systems.  

[](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRrnJ8z7TpI/AAAAAAAAAPw/k2xakdmqROo/s1600-h/DurableVsNonDurable.jpg)

  

So, why did such a successful [financial
instrument](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Financial_instrument) failed to
understand and predict the impending crisis. It must have been very clear from
the numbers. :-)

  

May be it didn't. May be it was just ignored.

  

Let me choose one basic variables to explain how numbers speak in the world of
economics.

  

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRrnJ8z7TpI/AAAAAAAAAPw/k2xakdmqROo/s400/DurableVsNonDurable.jpg)

  

The above graph shows the relationship between the
[CPI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index) of durables and non-
durables goods. Ohh, what is
[CPI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index)? It is simply a
[Consumer Price Index](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index)\- in
simple terms it denotes the price of the goods that consumers pay for and is a
good indicator for the inflation. So more price means more inflation.

  

Starting from the early 80s, there is a close call between the price of[
Durable goods](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) (electronic gadgets
etc) and [Non-Durable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) (cosmetics,
foods etc) goods. The prices seem to be slowly rising. But in 1990, we see the
divergence in the price. At around 1997, it seems the price on [Durable
goods](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) are starting to fall very
slowly, while the price on [Non-
Durable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) goods are shooting high.

  

Now, the analysis is not always about the rise and fall in the numbers. It is
about saying why it is happening and how it can be controlled. But before
that, let me pose a question. What do you want? Do you want a constant [CPI
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index)or a rising [CPI
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index)or a falling
[CPI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index). Which one is better?

  

Constant [CPI ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index)would
obviously denote a stagnant market, with no selling or buying at all.
Inevitably, due to dynamic market , there is always going to be fluctuation.
So there is a range in price over which this fluctuation happens. We are
looking at a range not at the discrete particular point. But this range also
increases and decreases according to civilisation's ability to purchase and
sell. It like saying what to call expensive and what to call cheap.

  

So much talk over one graph! Yes, because, one graph is able to give so many
information, because it is affected by many variables which reveals itself on
the process of analysis.

  

Now the change in the [CPI
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index)value of [durable
goods](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) and [non-durables
goods](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) can have many reasons. One
such reason can be, the demand of non-durable goods might have increased. Its
a basic economics. Also let me add another graph showing the production cost
of the [Non-durable](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) and [Durable
goods](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good).

  

  

![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRrsDg1_-bI/AAAAAAAAAP4/t_zLqrHMju0/s400/DurableVsNonDurable+PPI.jpg)

  

We can see that the producer's price index for the [Durable
Goods](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durable_good) have not changed since 1997
but the production cost for the Non-Durable goods have increased at a very
high rate. This may have been reflected on the Consumer's Price Index. But
there is a conflict between the correlation of [CPI
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_price_index)and PPI, which I better
not address now.

  

So, on a simple note changing the production cost changes the consumer's cost.
It is not enough, just stating the fact, we still don't know why the
production cost suddenly rose in 1997. Does the [Great Asian Crisis on
1997](http://www.boostworks.com/?p=133) has to do anything with it.

  

Think about it and let me know what you all think. I may post further articles
investigating this phenomenon.

  

