---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3554582060230083642"
title: "Entrepreneurship II"
slug: "entrepreneurship-ii"
publishedDate: "2008-10-13T19:04:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SPQE2B-2pCI/AAAAAAAAAG0/ER4mz9zyWsM/s400/road_to_horizon_id236938_size380o.jpg)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SPQE2B-2pCI/AAAAAAAAAG0/ER4mz9zyWsM/s1600-h/road_to_horizon_id236938_size380o.jpg)lets
continue to discuss on this topic of entrepreneurship more. With the world
moving so fast in innovations and technology, I ask, can we play any role in
it? Many of us do not think that we could have something as big as
[Microsoft](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft) or
[Sony](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony) or
[IBM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM). But wait a minute, are we purposely
demeaning ourselves. Have we tried hard enough to reject the idea of building
any new technology. Are we even encouraging the one, who are trying their best
to do so? So lets analyze it.  
  
Is money the biggest hurdle in creating a technology ? My answer is - very
rarely. From my point of view, technology does not mean building an expensive
machine, it simply means coming with an efficient solution. I have not set any
boundary for technology. Its an idea or a faithful solution whose sole purpose
is to upgrade the standards of the work. No doubt the capital is also
necessary.  
  
Its the fact that all the innovation have started with a dream to solve a
particular problem. It will be cliche for me to repeat those achievements. To
innovate you don't have to be a rocket scientist, you simply need to
understand the needs of the society. If you can identify those areas then the
solution will surely knock on your doors.  
  
People fear technology as a job snatcher. Something that causes unemployment,
but I see it as the opportunity to explore ourselves. The opportunity to live
a different life. Long time back I heard someone say, "We want to learn to
fish and not eat the fish exported to us." How true is the statement, we
should really be investing in coming with our own technology, our own product.
Also we must be able to compete with the world market. Can we? Am I being
irritatingly optimistic? If so, do you see any wrong in that. Is it wrong for
me to hopefully believe that we can off course compete and produce a world
class product?  
  
Very often, I have asked myself the correct way of achieving to my dreams and
I find that the only way is to have a clear, long vision and lead. This merely
means, on the other hand, being an
[entrepreneur](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entrepreneur). It is the fact of
our world and it does not need any justification that - The faith of the
society lies on the hand of one dreamer. Just one. Imagine if there are more
than one. Can anyone stop them to innovated and lead? I wonder.  
  

