---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-8549143136419780178"
title: "Fearful Consumer Market"
slug: "fearful-consumer-market"
publishedDate: "2009-04-20T23:48:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

Consumer market is something, I always feared. During my engineering days, I
knew it was one area where I would not find myself working. I always feared
the harsh competition of the market. I worried if ever, anything I made would
sustain in the market. Or how people would react to it? You can say, I feared
criticism and all the yap yap of group of people, who knows only how to
suggest but not to act. Thus, I kept my interest into custom projects and not
related to anything that a single consumer would use, rather it was something
of community service. But with changing time, I knew I had to make a plunge
into the ocean of consumer market and face the competition. "Be a man! Dude"
That is what I would say to myself. I knew I couldn't swim, but I had to give
it a try.  

  

Journey into the consumer market is like that of 20000 Leagues Under The Sea.
There are so many different kinds of creatures around to look and be
fascinated. Some are small living in tiny groups. Some are sharp predators
chasing and making a hunt, they would kill you if they want, it depends on how
much threat you pose to them - or how hungry they are. There are herbs and
many different kinds of plants that grow organically and animals feed on them.
These are harmless and friendly. And there are giants like whale which no one
can touch or poke around, they have been living there for ages and will remain
their more. These giants neither rule nor control anything, they are just
their, making their presence- completing an ecosystem. Then there are some
freaky looking creatures -like squid (which can be as large as ships)- which
makes you puke, but yes they are there too. You can't ignore them. They stare
right into your eyes as if they can read your mind. These creatures act like
parasite and feed on dead, sometime they eat their own kind too.

  

Then there are mythological creatures which exist if you want them too.
Everyone fears them but we know they only exist in our mind. Well, the last
kind is the most fearless of all, its sharks, its strong, powerful, agile and
quick on instinct. They virtually rule the sea. There are more of it but they
rarely interfere with each other, but when they do, its a fight the whole
world watches in amazement. But, its not always this way, there are among
these predators and giants, an intelligent being, an innovative and highly
creative creatures which are changing the way of life at sea. These are the
being which marks a change and the change that is truly for good.

  

So far, I have only reached till here. My journey is beginning to take shape
and form a story. Slowly I can see a transformation in me, and the
transformation is subtle. I wonder which creature I would transform into. Its
a long journey but a beautiful one. There is a difference in growing in a
depth of ocean and growing inside a protective glass.

  

I can only sing a song by Beatles:

  

I'd like to be under the sea  

In an octopus' garden in the shade  

He'd let us in, knows where we've been  

In his octopus' garden in the shade  

  

I'd ask my friends to come and see  

An octopus' garden with me  

I'd like to be under the sea  

In an octopus' garden in the shade.  

  

