---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-6615819102249586546"
title: "Good Ad Versus Bad Ad"
slug: "good-ad-versus-bad-ad"
publishedDate: "2009-03-30T01:39:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

[](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCVoRKyTKI/AAAAAAAAAnU/b4dxVSFwz0Q/s1600-h/twitter1.jpg)

At [InRev](http://www.in-rev.com/), for past few days we have been working on
our new project. The project is about collaborative blogging, from the blogger
around the world. As [Bhupendra ](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/)and I
have been blogging for long time, with his immense experience, our team has
been working to revamp the [globalthoughtz](http://www.globalthoughtz.com/)[
](http://www.globalthoughtz.com/)and create a new blogging experience. In this
site, we are planning to add a section where people can add their
advertisement. We thought lets start by our own :), with already so many
products on the line, it was obvious.  

  

So there goes an effort to create a small 128 px by 128 px logo. If you are a
designer, you know that designing is a very time consuming process. For hours,
you just test around with colors. Remember there are 256 X 256 X 256
combination of colors!! Its hard job selecting one.

  

Lets start with [F-Cube](http://www.f-cube.us/reports/): In short F-cube is a
Free Economic Reporting Site. Let me exhibit some Ad made for it and its pros
and cons. (Please don't click on the image. Wait till the end. Thank You)

  
[![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCJjXYQPUI/AAAAAAAAAlc/c3xLVSyf8o4/s400/fcube.jpg)](http://www.f-cube.us/)

OK, how does this one look? At a glance, it might sound interesting, but with
time you will find that its irritating. Really! There are too many things
written, and all in different colour. There is two unnecessary image at the
right hand side making the Ad look clutter. The company's name is too large
and obnoxious. You see, you are selling service not company.

  

FOCUS on product, dude. I don't care how long it took, its too inefficient.
Try again. And most of the advertisement really looks like this. I must
confess, before I made this I had done lot of exploring. This is what happens
when you start searching for inspiration at the wrong place.

  

So what did I do. [ Shift \+ Delete ] Start all over again, fresh and
remember, simple. And this is how it went.

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCKP2TBbfI/AAAAAAAAAl0/g7wY9pxGxUg/s400/fcube1.jpg)](http://www.f-cube.us/)

  

Looks fine. Its simple but too simple. It doesn't contain any tone what so
ever. The problem with this is the blank white space at the right top and
bottom left corner. Any space not contributing to your Ad should be deleted.
But you can't delete space. So.. So you add something. Simple. :)

  

  

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCKUqZp4uI/AAAAAAAAAl8/uffZF_fUCIA/s400/fcube2.jpg)](http://www.f-cube.us/)

Now this is wrong. It didn't solve your problem. It created more. Instead of
filling the empty space, it created a total distraction and confusion. It
created more useless space on the left top and the right bottom.

  

  

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCLenUSRfI/AAAAAAAAAmU/aNFAaR9qVFs/s400/fcube3.jpg)](http://www.f-cube.us/)

  

  

Finally, this is fine. The reason is very logical and simple. First, the red
and the blue color filled the space that was making it look odd. The
complementary color always works fine, especially when its your company color.
The text is simple. FREE ECONOMIC REPORT. That's the service you are after.
When you sell a chocolate, you don't go around telling him the story of how
the factory was started. Unless the product has no value.

  

But as usual, we humans have a tendency to be overwhelmed with design and
become wild. Just look at what I did, after completing the above design.

  
  

<[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCQhZPbOFI/AAAAAAAAAms/MKcxP7wtk4M/s400/fcube4.jpg)](http://www.f-cube.us/)

[](http://www.f-cube.us/)Dumm Dumm Dumm. You got a be dumm. This is a mash up
and totally unnecessary. Know when to stop your creativity, this makes all the
difference. :)  

  

  

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCVlN9OvII/AAAAAAAAAnM/WD_wqnKhN-c/s400/twitter3.jpg)](http://www.buzzom.com/)

  
  

Let me share two more design that we did for our
[TwitIn](http://www.buzzom.com/) Application.  

  

I purposely did this to show, how messed up you can get when you don't
understand the color combination. Its not bad to make stupid design but its
wrong to believe that you have created a master piece.

  

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SdCVoRKyTKI/AAAAAAAAAnU/b4dxVSFwz0Q/s400/twitter1.jpg)](http://www.buzzom.com/)

  
  

  

Phew! Finally I am at the end of my post. The picture at the left is the one
we chose for our TwitIn Application. The colors are simple and soothing. You
know you can't be perfect but you can at least try.  

  

  

Design requires not only creativity but also wisdom to understand what these
designs actually mean. Few things you need to remember while designing:  

  

1\. Don't shout! Unless you are an activist.

2\. Don't say too much. Unless you are a liar.

3\. Keep it simple but not lame.

4\. Be creative but not boastful.

  

Hope I covered most things that I wanted to share. One last thing, does long
post really bore you? Just a question I have on my mind. Its a long process of
understanding what works and what doesn't. You can see that all the above
design might be beautiful but not the one that is necessary. The only way to
find it is to keep exploring the horizon.

By the way, now you can click them as you wish. :)  

  

