---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-8856048476753041184"
title: "Importance of Free Information"
slug: "importance-of-free-information"
publishedDate: "2011-03-08T12:23:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

I have never been a die hard FOSS guy. I don't even remember attending any
FOSS conferences or joining a FOSS community. But as an observer, I deeply
value its presence and its motive. FOSS is about freedom in information and
its owner ship to the audience. Allowing users to have complete control over
the information fosters innovation and provides better opportunities.  
  
The freedom in information does not only means source code or design
blueprints, but every aspect of knowledge. Knowledge has to be shared freely
and openly to public. Here, I am not pointing to wiki leaks phenomenon or
other piracy issues, but simply the openness of valued information.  
  
I remember getting fully excited during my A levels , when I heard that MIT
will be sharing their lecture videos and materials to the public under the
name of Open Course. As I was deeply interested in learning more about science
and technology, I thought this was the greatest news. It meant I no longer had
to beg for knowledge. It gave me huge opportunity to explore the horizon of
science without being restricted or questioned. I believe every form of
education has to be that way, unrestricted.  
[![](http://documentumworld.com/documentum/_key_not_found_/wordpress_2_9_2wordpress/wp-
content/uploads/2010/11/Picture-8.png)](http://documentumworld.com/documentum/_key_not_found_/wordpress_2_9_2wordpress/wp-
content/uploads/2010/11/Picture-8.png)  
---  
Photo attribution: http://www.flickr.com/photos/koencobbaert/  
  
Prior to this news, I use to visit British Councils and other libraries in
search of good books and envied the pricing tags it use to bear. I hated being
unable to own them and access the knowledge. Often I would borrow books and
take home to study. I would then spend hours coping the content of the book
into my thick notebook, just to make sure I owned it. I think I still have
those notebooks, where I drew every figures and charts in the book. It gave me
sense of ownership which I enjoyed a lot.  
  
Now I try to trace my childhood and remember that I had done similar
activities when I was in grade 3/4. I had borrowed a story book from my friend
to read. Because I enjoyed the story so much, I decided to copy the whole
story in my notebook in beautiful handwriting :). It was a story of "The Story
of Goldilocks and the Three Bears".  
  
This brings me to say that knowledge should not be a privilege but a right to
everyone. No one in this world should be valued based on their basic
knowledge. In this I don't mean that every companies need to share their
secret chemicals. I mean to say that, any kind of information that deprives
human from extensive knowledge benefiting a single identity needs to be
challenged and shared freely.  
  
There is more I want to share about my thoughts on the fabric of economy and
how it can be disrupted by information. But for this post, I simply wanted to
give a perspective on the need of free information.  
  
  

