---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3852981630709630983"
title: "Information 2.0"
slug: "information-2-0"
publishedDate: "2008-11-21T07:38:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

The age is of that of information. No Doubt. But, with increasing size of data
and the redundancy, it is not difficult to get lost into the vastness of the
data ocean. How often have you experienced that you sit in front of your
computer to search on a specific topic and find yourselves wandering for
hours, losing your focus. Very often isn't it.  

  

Google made it easy to find the data, making the search engine efficient.
Today, people have become use to using search engine. Somehow, we all have
become lazy to even remember the site's name, cause we have confidence in
search engine. So what is the NEXT step in this information revolution.
Analysis??

  

Well, I am not trying to brag about my profession, but surely when the size of
information is so large, you need some one to analyse them and ...and what??
And report them to the end user.

  

Ultimately, it is the defined information that we need. Thus, it is not
surprising to find many reporting tools available here and there. But very
often do you find a Web Reporting Portal and that also based upon the [Open
Software](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source_software) Philosophy. One
such tool that I have come across is [OpenI](http://www.openi.org/).

  

Talking about reporting tools, they are based upon different database system
or architecture, depending upon the nature and size of data. The common
database system are [MySQL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySQL),
[Oracle](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oracle_Database),
[PostGreSQL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PostgreSQL), [SQL
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL)etc. But, reporting is done not directly
from the [Database server](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_server),
there is a need for few layers between them so that the data is processed to
the required form.

  

In OpenI, this layer is the [OLAP
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_analytical_processing)and [RDBMS
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database_management_system)deployed
on any [J2EE
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Platform,_Enterprise_Edition)server.
Technically, OpenI is the integration of a powerful java based tools like
[JPivot](http://jpivot.sourceforge.net/), [JFree
Chart](http://www.jfree.org/jfreechart/), [Mondrian
](http://mondrian.pentaho.org/)and [Jasper
Report](http://jasperforge.org/plugins/project/project_home.php?group_id=102).

  

It provides an easy way of connecting a processed data in the form of OLAP to
the end-user in form of Graphs and Charts with the click of button and query
processor. Its fun to use it, especially when it is web based. Soon
information processor will be flooding the market today and this is
inevitable.

  

With the demand of Intelligent Data in the market, it won't be wrong to tell
that this is the age of [Information
2.0](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2008/11/information-20-and-openi.html)
as my friend, here has mentioned.

