---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-2097463178971584043"
title: "Innocence"
slug: "innocence"
publishedDate: "2008-11-05T05:47:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGlUm5mBtI/AAAAAAAAAOQ/RSHug6IbkME/s400/DSC04172.JPG)](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGlUm5mBtI/AAAAAAAAAOQ/RSHug6IbkME/s1600-h/DSC04172.JPG)  
[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGlGIPn__I/AAAAAAAAAOI/4LXzNS5M0Hc/s400/DSC04222.JPG)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGlGIPn__I/AAAAAAAAAOI/4LXzNS5M0Hc/s1600-h/DSC04222.JPG)  
[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGk6T82zfI/AAAAAAAAAOA/_nURspSyRbE/s400/DSC04174.JPG)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGk6T82zfI/AAAAAAAAAOA/_nURspSyRbE/s1600-h/DSC04174.JPG)  
[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGkwBHnEQI/AAAAAAAAAN4/tLNPwn899xk/s400/DSC04173.JPG)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRGkwBHnEQI/AAAAAAAAAN4/tLNPwn899xk/s1600-h/DSC04173.JPG)

What are we looking here? It may not be the first time that a photo of a child
is exposed in a media to prove a point. To prove that they are being
misunderstood, or to prove some political and economical agenda.  

  

But let me be clear that these photos do not show anything else, beside the
very innocense of a child, doesnot matter if they are from a developing or
under-developed country. Child is a child, every where, some having an extra
priviledge, while some under-priviledged. They are the undeniable truths and
the more we explore the more we are bound to find them.

  

When I took these photos, they were not in pain nor in a tortured state. They
were simply enjoying the fact that they were being photographed. They were not
even concerned what it was for neither did they cared. They were
enthusiastically, communicating with me to be photographed and followed me
where ever I went. It was from my perspective a pure innocence of a child.
Even I would have reacted in a similar way if I had seen a camera for the
first time.

  

My point and concern is always and will always be that the future is in the
child. We need to be careful with them and make a heathly environment for
their growth. In today's media savy world, children are being exposed with out
their complete understanding of world. I don't now how good is this, neither
want to say its wrong. But we need to be concerned that they don't get over-
whelmed by the new culture. But lets see what future will show on these act,
but lets not wait for the result but lets be concerned and act now.

  

How true I am, I can't say. Let me hear from you all. Its my concern let it
also be yours.

  

  

