---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-1739359380708638612"
title: "Mathematical Reality"
slug: "mathematical-reality"
publishedDate: "2008-10-31T01:23:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

  

[](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsbjb9NeMI/AAAAAAAAALk/r5bLy9kvjxg/s1600-h/monan.png)[![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsagA9CoeI/AAAAAAAAAK8/au2tjKbqTMQ/s400/fxdrawcollage.gif)](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsagA9CoeI/AAAAAAAAAK8/au2tjKbqTMQ/s1600-h/fxdrawcollage.gif)

Why do we use so much of mathematics in analytics, and is there any way to
justify this method? The answer is very straight and simple. Mathematics is
taken as one of the most truly logical language. No doubt.

  

In addition, analytics means analysing the facts and logically following the
clues in the facts to come to a practical conclusion. Its this process that
exploits the power of mathematics, to structure the logic in the most
appropriate way. The mathematical processing makes the logic in physical world
more understandable and playable. Thus, giving analyst a tremendous power to
handle the facts.

  

If there is a time, than I would suggest going through a book called "[A
Mathematician's Apology](http://books.google.co.in/books?id=beImvXUGD-
MC&dq=mathematician's+apology&pg=PP1&ots=Z6AJEZ2nmW&source=bn&sig=1DA5Py_88v5x7MQ92WnFee_yOKc&hl=en&sa=X&oi=book_result&resnum=4&ct=result)"
by  [G.H. Hardy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G._H._Hardy). It is the most
humblest book I have come across. The book is about a Mathematician who have
chosen to devote his whole life on mathematics. There, he argues the
difference between the Mathematical Reality and Physical Reality. Let me
explain it in my words.

  

In a physical world, there are many qualities, lets call it variables which
are given specific units. All these variables are in continuous change. One of
the most important variable that changes almost every instance is no other
than "time". (Be careful with what I have said right now, because its a very
complicated statement, as change in itself is related to time). And all these
variables are dependent upon one other, making it almost impossible to track
them. This fact makes it impossible to consider every single variable during
our analysis. Therefore, its impossible to model any physical system with 100%
accuracy.

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsbdZ0M3YI/AAAAAAAAALc/caBDp6zyvSU/s200/bkgstrassen.jpg)

But in mathematical world, every thing is ideal. In order to understand this
idealism, I want to give some examples: lets take a circle or line or any
geometric shape.

![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsbjb9NeMI/AAAAAAAAALk/r5bLy9kvjxg/s200/monan.png)

  

In real world, when a circle is drawn, its never circle and also occupies
physical space. But, in mathematics, line is considered to be 100% straight
and ideally of zero thickness occupying no space at all.

  

  

Further, this circle is described by an algebraic equations. This mathematical
equation is like the DNA of life, describing it in all possible ways.

  

Therefore, in mathematical domain, every calculations and predictions are
accurate as concerned with logic but when we map them to physical domain, we
get errors. These errors are due to the approximations in our analysis and due
to the undeniable difference between the two domain.

  

![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsagS9NvII/AAAAAAAAALE/iJbr-Q3gug8/s400/zipf_visualization_logarithmic.gif)

In the graph by the side, blue line is the real data from physical world,
whereas the red line is the data from the mathematical world.

  

If the data is considered from 1 to 100 in the X-axis, we can see that the two
lines are almost following each other. By taking this sample and modeling in
the mathematical domain, we come to conclusion that the physical domain must
follow the red line pattern. But NO! Some how, the real world's data is
dropping down. There is tremendous error. This error can be reduced with more
consideration of all the variables. T

  

The point is, its impossible to accurately model the physical system into a
mathematical system with zero percent error. Therefore, we talk about
approximation, probability and percentages. There is always a loss in the
process of transformation of variables, from one domain to another. Then, why
do we take this step to analyse. Its because, once the problem is in
mathematics, its easier to manipulate the variables and create a logical
relations, this is made more easier by the availability of thousand and
thousands of mathematical tools. And off course, the problem cannot be solved
in the physical domain, it has to be transformed to mathematical domain.

  

Understanding these relationships between the physical variable and a
mathematical variable makes a lot of difference in our analysis process. Let
me know what you think about it.  

  

Some cool links:

[http://www.buildingmind.com](http://www.buildingmind.com/pythagorean%20numbers.html)  

[http://www.chartwellyorke.com](http://www.chartwellyorke.com/fxmathpack.html)  

  

  

  

