---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-1287594659943118350"
title: "On War"
slug: "on-war"
publishedDate: "2008-12-01T08:42:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

There is a book named [1984 ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1984)by [George
Orwell](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Orwell). This is the book with one
of the most thorough analysis of the society that we live in. The society
divided by the class and the society divided by the belief. No, I am not going
for a book review, its an important issue that I am tyring to address.  

  

It is strange to ponder upon the thought, if the world is ever going to attain
peace. If all the human are ever going to attain the equal respect in the
society. If power is ever going to be distributed to all the people with out
any fear.

  

Its a question which has almost no answers. But we all keep trying hard to
attain peace because it makes sense and it is the only thing that balances the
violence.

  

It will be stupid to question if we are ever going to attain equality because
that does not matter. What matters is that we bring a balance in the world and
live in harmony. Harmony means bringing balance and not wining.

  

With recent Mumbai Blast and the terror all around the world, its difficult to
project the future of the world. The only concern is to exist as a society
rather than an individual. Philosophies and different views exist because
society exist and not the other way round. We create rules not the other way
around.

  

Mumbai Blast. These kinds of violence must not be taken as a way of life but
must be fought to bring it to the end. The compromise will make the terrorism
more strong and will back fire to the new future. Its a vicious cycle in which
human may find themselves. One terror triggering other. But inaction to a
action is not the way of nature. If no strong action is taken then there will
be more terror in the future.

  

