---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-2906355216936107501"
title: "Opportunities and Success"
slug: "opportunities-and-success"
publishedDate: "2010-11-10T14:03:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

Just before sleeping I decided to go through the first chapter of Outliers,
one of the bestselling book on success and innovation. The chapter was so
intriguing that it pushed me to think hard about myself. And I had only begun
to read.  
  
A very valid point was made in the chapter about the opportunities that people
get in their life which pushes them to success and how baise these
opportunities tend to be. A very intriguing example was given of how a hockey
players in a specific region turned out to have similar birth months. No, it
had nothing to do with astrology but a simple set of opportunities set out by
the council of hockey which gave more opportunities to the people born in
January, February and March.  
  
[![](http://www.strongodors.com/wp-
content/uploads/2010/01/legos.jpg)](http://www.strongodors.com/wp-
content/uploads/2010/01/legos.jpg)  
---  
_strongodors.com_  
It turned out that the council enrolled young kids for training at specific
time which unknowingly gave kids born in January more chances of fitting the
age bar and entering the hockey team.  
  
As a result, these kids got head start in their life and rode on the
opportunities towards success.  
  
Though, it is not ignoring skills and intelligence. It surely points out the
missed opportunities for other kids. In the chapter, more examples are given
for different games, education and different scenarios.  
  
And seriously, we have witnessed these facts even in our day to day life. We
find people with opportunities more equipped with things to handle the day to
day challenges. And I looked at myself and said, "What opportunities did I
have and what I didn't?"  
  
To start with, I was born in a city which gave me excess to advantages of city
dwellers. But ironically, I spent most of my childhood in a small village, on
eastern part of Nepal, which was a base for advance research on Agriculture
(PAC), where my father was working.  
  
Though, I did my early schooling in a village school which had less to offer
than city school. The place I was living in was nothing like a village. It was
a merge of high end research labs and villagers living in harmony. The people
and the culture of the place is still something I idealized.  
  
It was in this very village I had witnessed computers and large computer
networks, despite the fact that the village had no telephone for inter
communication. Amazingly, though the time was between 80s and 90s, I was able
to see and experience Laptops before Desktops. I still find it strange because
it was only after a decade I was able to own my own Desktop while I was doing
my A level. Here I have given you an example of few gained and missed
opportunities, based on location. But I have noticed that location sometime
does not bother people who have strong will to succeed.  
  
[![](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3146/2821703758_19f59b9ff9.jpg)](http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3146/2821703758_19f59b9ff9.jpg)  
---  
_flickr.com_  
Now lets go to parenting. Today I have an engineering degree and a passion for
building things and making it work.  
  
This passion was seeded into me early on when my father gave me a LEGO as a
first toy. I still remember the day he opened the box and gave me the pieces
to solve. Since then I have never stopped dreaming about building and
designing systems and working with it.  
  
But my main point is that I did not become an engineer because I was given a
LEGO and that I had fun with it in my early days. The important thing is that
I was given an opportunity to explore things which luckily resonated with my
interest and skill sets. _(Because I still remember my father buying me a
General Knowledge book on which I simply had no interest :) )_ I was even
lucky to have an uncle who was amazingly creative and inspired me to draw,
build and even play music. Somehow, I still have a taste for music similar to
him. This doesn't mean I was influenced, it means that I was lucky to have
people around me with whom I could resonate. Now that is very important. I
believe that every people have something interesting inside them and that they
should get an opportunity to explore it.  
  
Now, this opportunities to explore your interest is much more important than
an opportunity to go into formal schooling and get a degree. Because once a
kid finds his passion, he is bound to follow it till the end and success in
itself is defined by his path. But in this weak education system, modern
schools have a habit of narrowing down your options. I still remember how the
amount of Art and Music class lessened as we marched to higher grade.  
  
My point is that though opportunities play important roles in people's life
sometime a little more hard work can balance the missed opportunities. Because
looking at myself, I know that there were many points where I could not
achieve certain things due to the lack of opportunity, but as time went on the
homework paid off. My experience shows that when you realize that you are not
able to do certain things better than other due to lack of knowledge, just
remove your self from the rat race of trying to win. Step aside and work on
your weakness and do a strong homework.  
  
  
I could go on and on. But I thing thats enough. Further I do not know how the
book will move forward and may be there are certain things that I still have
not explored in this post. But when I get time, I will certainly do so. Also,
feel free to share your thoughts on it.

