---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3101257943635356889"
title: "Perspective"
slug: "perspective"
publishedDate: "2008-09-12T06:05:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMpqIouhjSI/AAAAAAAAABU/K0AwaMVYolM/s400/DSC04288.JPG)](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMpqIouhjSI/AAAAAAAAABU/K0AwaMVYolM/s1600-h/DSC04288.JPG)

Look at this picture very carefully. It was taken a year back when I was on my
field trip to one of the hilly villages in Nepal (Richowk). I was there for a
case study on Solar Power System.  

  

I stood here in this particular spot for about some minutes and it totally
changed my view on the concept of development. And mind you, I was there only
for a minute but those minutes were too powerful for me.

  

Look at the river winding itself around the land and making its way. And if
you look closely, you will see Nepal's national highway too, winding along
with the river. Following the nature seems so vivid and strong here.

  

One may wonder why is the river winding itself and not going straight and same
goes to the highway. WHY? Just why does it have to wind itself. Even nature
seems helpless to its own structure. Even nature is finding difficulties in
over-coming itself. But as the scientific reasoning goes, the river will
ultimately take the short-cut and so will the roads. So are we waiting for the
river to make the first move?

  

What if we don't wait and bombard the whole mass of land with bombs and make
the way for the river. Isn't that possible? I think it is. But just a second.
Should we do it? Hmm. Its a same kind of ethical questions that you ask now
and then again to yourself. So what do we do? Confused. Ya I am full of
confusion. So lets ask ourself a new question. Is it necessary to have a road
that goes straight through the hills. Well, yes I think. It will make the
journey fast. But how much capital do you think must be invested to attain
this. May be, we can do something better with it then bombarding the place and
if you are really in hurry, I suggest taking a plane. Well, may be well said.

  

There is philosophy which says go with the nature and not against it. Because
if you go against it, you distrub the whole balance of the nature. Imagine in
this case, our one stupid step to make a straight road may have impact on the
people staying there. Their usual life-style will be distrubed. But I am not
arguing that lets not do it. What I mean is go with the nature and it will
guide you through. Trying to straighten the river, you may be bending the
nature. Think about it.

  

But everyone has differnt way of thinking. May be not everyone will follow my
logic cause we are made that way. We have multi-dimensional perspective. Even
though we are looking at things from the same angle physically, your mind
seems to be in totally different dimension. Perplexed and Amazed, I can only
say when you do realize the truth make sure we follow it without fear.

[  
](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMpp04gDrwI/AAAAAAAAABM/UJIHKDAszG0/s1600-h/DSC04288.JPG)

