---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-1736039820876727851"
title: "Scripting and its Necessity"
slug: "scripting-and-its-necessity"
publishedDate: "2011-01-30T01:25:00.001-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

Every project needs a vision and a creative edge to it. For a long time, I
have heard of the importance of scripting in movie industry and importance of
planning a project. But what does this plan contain is not being shared by
anyone. I think it is something that you learn as you move ahead. For more
than 2 years in InRev, I have been involved in many projects and have seen
first hand what goes wrong in product development. Its the basic lack of
vision and planning. No one knows what must be done. So what is scripting.
Well, I have noticed that even in a simple works like creating an animation or
making an presentation, you need plans. Because a lot of time is spending in
doing things, so guideline is very important. Scripting doesn#39;t have to
follow any rules or format. I think its a simple presentation of any idea on a
simple pieces of paper which you need to sell to others. Ideas sell, isn#39;t
it. I think script is like a short story which you read and see if you like it
or not. In that short story you need to capture the essence of project. So I
am going to try today to do something like that for a small presentation that
I am planning to make. Lets see how it goes. bexdeep
https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794 noreply@blogger.com 0
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-1999520473705109254
2011-01-28T13:58:00.000-08:00 2011-01-28T13:53:03.050-08:00 Feature discovery
in product design Many designers believe that usability is a key point in
product design. So natural interaction is given high priority. Conforming that
user will be able to interact with the product. On the other hand, I feel that
discovering how to operate is also an important, as much as easy to understand
the product. Because we human beings are experimental in nature and have been
learning by doing things and figuring out the way. But I don#39;t mean to
stress that the process has to be complicated. bexdeep
https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794 noreply@blogger.com 0
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-1702508697747032111
2011-01-28T11:50:00.001-08:00 2011-01-28T11:50:08.422-08:00 Social Media is
Psychology Psychology! Yes indeed. If you look into the how social media
marketing is done than you will find out that every industry and business has
same tool and same opportunity. But due to the difference in how consumers
interact with the business, the nature of strategies differs in social media.
For example, interacting with people in Indonesia could completely differ from
that in India. So it boils down to the trend in what affects consumers in
large extent. So comes the theory of Psychology. If you can understand the
psychology of consumer than you can surely interact with people in social
media and gain their attention. As a result, its very imminent that people who
have cracked this secret in social media are doing great things. Therefore, my
statement that Social Media is Psychology makes a lot more sense. bexdeep
https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794 noreply@blogger.com 0
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-225346282737123260
2011-01-19T19:20:00.001-08:00 2011-01-19T19:21:24.076-08:00 Consumer Economy
Free Information has given opportunity for consumers to be producers and give
rise to different kind of economy. Here each individual has a direct contact
with other individuals creating a completely free eco-system. Online medium
has leveraged micro-economy to exist which is fueling the economic system.
Hence, more and more I have become aware of the revolution that is happening.
bexdeep https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794
noreply@blogger.com 0
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-4854077689585676264
2011-01-19T01:59:00.001-08:00 2011-01-19T01:59:54.631-08:00 Fabric of Economy
Had a very interesting thought on the economy. I call it quot;The Fabric of
Economyquot;. Its a basic concept that every human being should have equal
economic opportunity in their life. Hence anyone that tries to distort the
fabric of economy should be penalized. At the core of economy is the
quot;informationquot;. The free availability of information ensures stability
in the economy, as far as I am concern. But there are ways in which
information matters. Each kind of their information has their own priority and
effect on the global economy. What is more important is the stability of the
economy and opportunity rather than arguing the openness of the information.
bexdeep https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794
noreply@blogger.com 0
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-9062474247128492938
2011-01-18T04:57:00.001-08:00 2011-01-18T05:07:07.071-08:00 Comic Style
Presentation with Space Conscious There are lots of technique in which comics
are being produced and made. The traditional printed comics contains the
regular flow of the screen-shots of the story. But once I had seen a video on
TED where the comic creator was talking about the concept of spatial in comics
and how the internet could revolutionize the comic. I think it will take time
for such concept to be widely accepted. As I was going throughnbsp;
http://scottmccloud.com/1-webcomics/index.html, it occurred to me that the
slide presentation can be used to create a pseudo space where the story can be
presented. It will depend upon the the use of arrow keys like Up, Down, Front
and Back. But lets see how it goes. The idea is to control the space of the
story through the arrow keys. When you press Front, the space will move front
and when you click Back, the space will move back. Lets see how it will go.
bexdeep https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794
noreply@blogger.com 0
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-4387828399064703641
2010-12-30T00:26:00.001-08:00 2010-12-30T00:26:32.578-08:00 Two levels of
social monitoring Inception of the Idea Ok. So here are the two different
levels of monitoring that can be done on social media. 1\. Social Media Space
Basically finding out leads and their influence in the social media. Their
social media profiles and much more detail. 2\. Social Media Channels
Measuring the health of the social media channels and their influence in the
space. Basically, monitoring the performance of the channels and handling down
the optimization techniques. The last one that is present in both is the
profile influence analysis. bexdeep
https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794 noreply@blogger.com 0
tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-5220667602594297892.post-5010709563244898751
2010-12-18T16:19:00.001-08:00 2010-12-18T16:19:44.034-08:00 Intro This blog
will be related to all the project ideas and design issues of InRev and other
personal project. bexdeep https://www.blogger.com/profile/16426541200154503794
noreply@blogger.com 0

