---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-4340499741972887725"
title: "Selling an Empty Box?"
slug: "selling-an-empty-box"
publishedDate: "2008-12-16T20:56:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

Have you ever sold anything? Or have you ever tried selling anything? The
experience of selling is very different from any other experience. Its like, -
finally someone understands you- kind of thing.  

[](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SUiNZwHZmSI/AAAAAAAAAf8/SSP0uYI2GwA/s1600-h/avr-
isp-programmer-parallel-interface1.jpg)

  

Selling doesn't always include a transaction of cash. It can also mean making
someone believe what you are tring to say. But, lets not get into that - its
the job of lawyer. :)

  

Let me share one occasion where I did manage to sell something. It was during
my college days. I was working on a pet project of mine - making a [micro
controller](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microcontroller)[
programmer](http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2003/4/15/124459/007). It was
targeted at programming a
[89c51](http://members.tripod.com/mikrokontroler/)/52 series of micro
controller.

  

Well, don't go on what that means, its one type of micro controller. After
working for months on the design and layout and finally fabrication, on my
own, I was almost tried of it. Testing took another month. But, finally it
worked. I was more than happy. So, now I could use it. Let me show you how it
looked.

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SUiLrN1EaaI/AAAAAAAAAf0/Ze5AblDX-
_g/s400/easyprog1.jpg)

  

Well, its not the one I made, but my product looked very close to the size and
design of the above product.

  

So, what was I to do with the product, beside use it. I never had any motive
to sell. It was for my own fascination. But, soon I discovered that there was
new kind of micro controller in the market named
[89s51](http://www.8051projects.net/forum-t3874.html)/52. The beauty of this
was that it was easier to program and needed less hardware structure. You can
say it was a new technology. Hmm. And this is how the system looked like:

  

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SUiNZwHZmSI/AAAAAAAAAf8/SSP0uYI2GwA/s400/avr-
isp-programmer-parallel-interface1.jpg)

  

So simple, only one [chip](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chip) required. WOW.
How could I resist it? Everyone was already using the 89s51/52- the new one.
But the programmer was still rare. So one day, one of my senior, Ajit Malik,
told me if I could make it in a day, cause there were some student needing it.
I said off course. That day, I bought the necessary hardware and started
building. After night of soldering and testing, it worked. There wasn't any
way it was not going to work.

  

Next day, I gave it to him. After a few week, I got 1500Rs for it. :) It think
it took me only around 400 to build it. Plus, I think I owe it to my friend.
:) But the skill and the labour counted more.

Lesson I learnt:

  

My first product was an art of my own, it required complex layout design but
it wasn't selling anymore, due to the presence of new technology. But the new
product was what everyone needed in the market. So there was no doubt it
wasn't going to sell. After wards, I also went into building a full fledge
microcontroller kit based on that technology, but I never tried to sell it, I
was busy with other work. :(

  

So what's this selling an empty box thing? People tell that a good marketter
can even sell an empty box, my say is i don't want to sell empty box, I want
to build and sell something that is uselful. The only idea I have till now is,
make things that is necessary, it will surely sell.

  

Lets just not sell an empty box.

  

