---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3450473442665841587"
title: "Some crazy STUFF : Finding Reasons"
slug: "some-crazy-stuff-finding-reasons"
publishedDate: "2012-03-28T11:16:00.001-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

During my college, I use to sometime write some crazy stuff out of no where. I
guess I really wanted to tell a story like no one else and bring that level of
experience. After many years, today I seem to have understood this art better.
One of my friend use to tell me that being an artist its a life long passion
to understand what works and what doesn't. Keep pursuing it.  
  
For this reason, I had started writing vigorously. These days I am bit down on
my writing, but I am exploring it in much deeper sense than before. My diaries
were filled with thoughts and only thoughts. Sometime, I would just start
writing on my computer and leave it no where. You know, simply write and keep
writing. As a result, I did complete one novel :) which related to an
experience shared with my friends during one hiking, but I tried to make it
mysterious and mythological. Well some day I might share that too :) But for
now, I am just posting one very long, almost half baked story which I think
wrote almost 4 years back. Enjoy but don't sleep :D  

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-yCVJIVrNARk/T3NVWr6bXRI/AAAAAAAABA4/ILeEd18p_CI/s1600/finding_reasons.jpg)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-yCVJIVrNARk/T3NVWr6bXRI/AAAAAAAABA4/ILeEd18p_CI/s1600/finding_reasons.jpg)

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-7LgjgSEJf1w/T3NTh7XocwI/AAAAAAAABAo/Hu0GIKZDz8Y/s320/IMG_3339.JPG)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-7LgjgSEJf1w/T3NTh7XocwI/AAAAAAAABAo/Hu0GIKZDz8Y/s1600/IMG_3339.JPG)

Far way from the hustle and bustle of the city, laid a small settlings. With
its beauty, it decorated the whole barren terrain and made it look like
heaven. With colorful flowers blooming with happiness, the place had a
wonderful flavor in its environment. The place was filled with serenity. Even
the noises made by the children and the people blended itself with the nature,
sounding harmonious. Each whisper could be heard independently, it was that
clear. It was like looking through the crystal ball where you could see and
hear everything. This made the place mystical.  

  

A little away from the crowd, there was a beautiful cottage. It was owned by
Miss Angeli that was what everyone called her. She had moved to the place many
years ago and had started by being a teacher. She had gained a respectable
position in the village. After her arrival, she had managed to change a lot in
this small village by bringing the lost happiness and hope in everyone’s life.
Now she was on her eighties and was still strong. People found her amazingly
cheerful. When she walked on the street, each would greet her and cater help.
She had devoted her life to the welfare of the society. But no one new her
background and people never cared to ask her. For them she was an angel
dropped from the heaven.

  

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-0YqKp5yvAEo/T3NT1an68aI/AAAAAAAABAw/BJ-
QXopML8Y/s320/IMG_3157.JPG)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-0YqKp5yvAEo/T3NT1an68aI/AAAAAAAABAw/BJ-
QXopML8Y/s1600/IMG_3157.JPG)

As with everything, there was a myth about her life. Some said she was a
daughter of god, sent to help; some would say she was a lost child of a god.
Everyone had their own version but they were never near to the truth. The
truth was as usual far simpler then all the misinterpretation. When she had
arrived at the village, she was in her thirties. She was as beautiful as an
angle. When she walked on the streets, each passer-by would turn their head to
get a glimpse of her beauty. Soon her simplicity attracted many people. She
received many marriage proposals but she never accepted them. She did not like
hurting others but she had some how restricted herself from involving in a
relationship. As the years passed, she stopped receiving proposal. The people
respected her choice and never questioned her. Some would interpret her choice
by saying a god’s child must stay pure and scared. Though she was respected by
many people, she never let any one too close to her. She did not have single
friend with whom she would open herself. She lived a life like those of nuns
but without taking any oaths or committing her selves to any promises. She was
simply what she was. There was no code of conduct to be followed. More
interestingly, no one had ever entered her room, except for the little
children whom she tutored. When children were queried about her home, they
would say things that were as obvious like: “The home is just as simple as she
is.” “It’s too normal to be described.” And in reality, it was simple. There
was nothing mysterious about her neither about her lifestyle. But as she grew
older, people accepted her mysterious life style and got used to it.

  

But now, after almost fifty years of silence, she had finally decide to speak
to the crowd. No one had asked her to do so but she told everyone that she had
to tell her story. She said it was the right time. Suddenly after so many
years, the lost interest in her lifestyle was rejuvenated. She had planned to
talk at the ground of the school. Everyone was invited to it. The garden of
the school was cleaned to perfection. The children had all helped to put a big
tent under which the talk was to be preceded. The food was served to everyone.
It was as if a huge marriage ceremony was being held.

  

As the time approach for her to speak, the silence started to grow. People
were slowly moving towards their chairs. Even the wind had stopped, as if to
listen. The place had already gathered a mystical aura. Soon she appeared to
everyone’s sight. With her withered hands holding, what seems to be a small
diary, she gracefully moved towards the microphone. She had worn a light green
sari which matched her personality. Those who had seen her in her youths would
say that she had not changed a bit. As she stood in front of everyone, she
watched them and slowly smiled. Then she carefully unfolded her diary and
started to speak.  

  
[Image : Took them @ Rampur Chitwan]

