---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-545596355124834369"
title: "Source and Noise"
slug: "source-and-noise"
publishedDate: "2008-09-13T23:49:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

  

[  
](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy7AGfo_8I/AAAAAAAAACc/91CKYUiGiTg/s1600-h/sonyapple.jpg)

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy38xYpJWI/AAAAAAAAACU/sg4EetlUeQg/s400/compareWebAnalyticsUK.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy38xYpJWI/AAAAAAAAACU/sg4EetlUeQg/s1600-h/compareWebAnalyticsUK.jpg)

  

lets look at the same graph again. But this time, look at each individual
curves and you will find something very interesting.[  
](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy3sVxEubI/AAAAAAAAACM/VyKXkpAb-
eA/s1600-h/DellHp.jpeg)

  

Look at how the graph shoots up at the end of each year. This does not happen
only for sony but for every other graph. Can you guess why? May be just may be
it is because of the new model that appears at the end of each year. Or may be
some thing else. The art of analysing goes into not jumping at any conclusion
when you don't have enough data. Its good to assume but not be guaranteed
about it. So what do you do? Well, instead of making more assumption lets look
at more data. You may be correct or totally wrong.

  

  

![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy3sVxEubI/AAAAAAAAACM/VyKXkpAb-
eA/s400/DellHp.jpeg)

  

First thing in analysing is knowing that you are looking at the correct graph
and that you are comparing the correct things. For example, the four names
(dell,sony,hp,apple) looks very similar, but they aren't. You don't have any
mobile phones of hp, as far as I know and neither do dell. So is it right for
us to be categorising them in the same domain. No! You can also see above that
dell and hp has a lower and different trend than that of sony and apple.

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy7AGfo_8I/AAAAAAAAACc/91CKYUiGiTg/s400/sonyapple.jpg)

So here is the graph of only sony and apple. They seem to have similar trend
but the levels are not still the same. The only thing that is 100% certain is
that sony is more popular among google users. I have to be as accurate as
possible because not every one's search engine is google.

  

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy8If7qfNI/AAAAAAAAACk/nZuxkFNDoDA/s400/SonyIpod.jpg)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SMy8If7qfNI/AAAAAAAAACk/nZuxkFNDoDA/s1600-h/SonyIpod.jpg)

Wow, look at this one. When I am comparing ipod and sony they are head to
head. Strange. Why didn't the 'apple' search show the similar result. Apple is
same as with mac or ipod. Hmm.

  

This shows and proves my one point which is - Have full confidence in your
data first. With different search words we will have different results. So
lets not go random but systematic in it. Example, 'apple' is not the correct
search word to compare two companies cause apple is a general word with many
meanings, so this result of apple doesn't mean that it is the apple company.
In engineering term, it means correct your source of information and use a
very good filtering mechanism to insure that you are getting particularly what
you are searching for. This is not an easy task, remember the source is very
very messed up. Thus we have to engineer our way of analysing it. From the
above graph we can only assume and also have fun.

  

The next thing that I wanted to concentrate is the randomness or the noise in
it. The zigzag of the graph means noise to me cause I don't want it. I want a
smooth graph with some logic, not vibrating one unless I am looking at the
oscillating system. In this case, it seems people's interest are oscillating,
so may be it is an oscillating system. But even there, there is a noise in the
graph and we need to get rid of it, in such a way that we do not ignore the
real information.

  

Looking at a noise, for me, started a long time back when I use to work with
my friend Ansu. When every we gave an input to a electronic system, we had a
peculiarly annoying set of noise. We had less interest in the signal cause
that is what we expected but the noise its so unexpected. So we would go head
on with ourselves to eliminate it. But alas, we don't have a practical way of
deleting it but only reducing it. The reason is when you are dealing with the
noise, you are also dealing with the information. So you have a negative
feedback effect.

  

Surely, these seems less of an business problem than a hardcore engineering
problem. But hold on with that thought. We are dealing with a business problem
so our noise also has that characteristics. So we must have a business model
which could be in any domain. Then we have to deal with them accordingly.

  

And it is our jobs to make sure that we have a reliable graph from a reliable
source with less noise. The task is very frustratingly difficult one as you
don't know where to start form. So make sure, you have your goal fixed, so you
know what you are looking for. If you don't know what you are looking for you
can't find it no matter how long you search.

