---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-7574794314686121390"
title: "Teaching I"
slug: "teaching-i"
publishedDate: "2008-10-11T03:14:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SPCFkD-QZzI/AAAAAAAAAF8/_Aw22wd-
_xg/s400/teaching.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SPCFkD-
QZzI/AAAAAAAAAF8/_Aw22wd-_xg/s1600-h/teaching.jpg)

Its almost been 3/4 years that I started to teach [A Level
Physics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Level_\(UK\)). I started with a
reason to share all the things that I had learnt during my [A
level](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Level_\(UK\)) days. That seemed
more convincing to me for doing so. But I had to manage time for my own
studies, as well. For the third person, it looked as if I was walking on two
separate roads. But from my perspective, I saw that the path was one and only
one.  

  

I kept studying my engineering courses and preparing lectures. But it did not
happen the way it usually does. Mostly, preparing a lecture would mean holding
a pen and paper and listing the points to be taught. It might sound stupid and
odd but my most lectures were prepared on my mind. I usually prepared my
class, as I was cycling to campus, or sometime while listening to music and
most of the time while day dreaming. It is really odd thing to say but it was
usually this way, that I learnt to teach. If I had gone the other way, by
looking at the books an preparing a note then I would have never been able to
tell the students what I really wanted to. I always thought that teachers are
there to tell you things that are not written on books.

  

Its usually my experience with education that I have never and ever reviewed
my lecture note once it was written. Somehow the whole process of writing note
seemed more important to me then going through it afterwards. Therefore, I
usually encouraged my student to write on their own, instead on what teachers
were telling. But for many reasons the techniques wasn't working. Most of the
time, student rarely made their own notes which terribly upset me, for the
only reason that they were missing the skills to write down what they knew and
that they were being incapable of sharing their knowledge. The knowledge that
isn't shared loses its reason of existence.

  

During my years of teaching, I always forced myself to be stubborn about not
giving any notes to the student. But now and then I would receive complains
from them, as the exam came nearer and they didn't have anywhere to refer. I
would get really frustrated. But then with patience, I would note down the
important points for their shake. Some how I hated myself for spoon feeding
them but I had to do.

  

Years have passed and I have all these mixed reactions with students, some
success and some failure. I would think about it a lot and see if there was a
point where I had gone wrong. From teachers perspective, its really difficult
to see the failure in student, cause it would somehow reflect the failure on
me. But I guess that was what I kept learning all these years, failure and
success hand in hand.

  

  

  

