---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-1114059584777651154"
title: "The truth is NOT out there, its here."
slug: "the-truth-is-not-out-there-its-here"
publishedDate: "2009-01-18T07:28:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

  

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SUC-
sFNKyyI/AAAAAAAAAfU/avbuadN-3Tg/s400/CC000819.jpg)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SUC-
sFNKyyI/AAAAAAAAAfU/avbuadN-3Tg/s1600-h/CC000819.jpg)As I was graduating, my
professor use to smile and say ... prepare for the real world. I wondered what
he meant by that. I didn't understand this whole concept of the real world.
But I think, I know now, as I am in the so called the Real World.  

  
So read my hypothesis and logic that I follow: Please bare with me.  
__________________________________________________  
  
No one knows why the hell we are here for. (Everyone knows this, right.)  
  
So scientist, philosophers and all the researchers are searching for it. The
Ultimate Answer. Yup, they are given the job of finding answers. There are
ways of inciting them to do it. Believe me.  
  
Meanwhile, we all need to exist. And the race must go on. Remember, we still
don't have any answers.  
  
Off course to exist, we need to get married and have children. So we have ways
of inciting young minds to fall in love and get married. Great.  
  
But, how on earth are Elders or so called Elites of the Society going to
answer to all the questions of new generation, coz they are also conscious of
themselves. Isn't it?  
  
So here comes the great part or the great ACT........ All the elders then
designed a method of answering the questions. They called it EDUCATION. In
every Grade, we were told that the lesson from the previous grade is wrong and
that what we are reading now is more correct. Damn..  
  
Adding more to it, they kept young minds busy with EXAMS, HONOURS and
DEGREES...which really have no purpose......they say.....more degree more
answer. Bullshit. :)  
  
So children think...... Ok elders must be right....... Only few break those
glasses of rules, after which some get frustrated, while some come out strong
and live a life. Hmm.  
  
So the truth is that we all are just making ourselves feel good, about
ourselves and living and wondering about this life. Hoping we will have
answers to our existence.  
  
Meanwhile, we have Wars that will make us busy, we have disease to worry
about, we have Celebrities to look at and laugh at them, we have protest to
keep ourself excited. Overall we have us. And yes, we also have Aliens, the
other us.  
  
Here, I am trying to come out strong. And I tell about this theory of mine, to
my good old pal, and guess what he tells.  
  
He tells me do you know-[ Quarter Life
Crisis.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quarter-life_crisis)  
  
And I go damm, they even have devised an answer to my reasoning..You see these
elders are very SMART. :) Be aware of them.  
  
You see, that is why the Professor smiled at me when he told me this Real
World Crap. He knew it. So do I and I smile too. :)  
  
Here: Read this other post that I wrote a long time back.
[Expectation.](http://engineersthink.blogspot.com/2008/09/great-
expectation.html)

