---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-5756887156366581006"
title: "The Truth"
slug: "the-truth"
publishedDate: "2008-11-05T10:52:00.000-08:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRH51g1bBQI/AAAAAAAAAOw/jzOY4RUccBo/s400/ArcView_GIS_Network_Analyst.gif)](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRH51g1bBQI/AAAAAAAAAOw/jzOY4RUccBo/s1600-h/ArcView_GIS_Network_Analyst.gif)

"The Truth is Out There." Obviously, it is there and everyday we seek to find
it. But being an analyst, I find myself searching it more harder then others.
Every time you look into graphs and numbers, you seem to see certain pattern
in it and it almost becomes an obsession. But time and again, I keep asking
myself, if there is anything like an absolute truth, I mean THE TRUTH.  

  

The hidden truth is always waiting to be revealed, in form of numbers or
graphs. It is an amazing feeling that you get, when you certainly figure out
the truth. You say, "AAh! So that is why?"

  

This small enlightened gives a certain amount of happiness in you. That is the
nature of Truth. But why am I saying all these things, what does it has to do
with an engineering problem in analytics. Well a lot, actually.

  

Long time back, when I was attending a presentation on Design of [Complex
Circuit](http://edablog.com/2008/07/22/berkeley-design-noise/) by one of the
lead designer of [HP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hewlett-Packard), he told
us that the engineers working in the field of [MIXER
design](http://www.dself.dsl.pipex.com/ampins/mixer/mixerdes.htm) is never
going to be unemployed. The reason was that the MIXER design is full of
problems that will never be solved completely. The field of Analytics is
similar, no matter how many truths or patterns we find in our data, we are
never going to have the complete truth. Thereafter, Analyst will also never be
out of job. MMM! thats cool. But that's not my point.

  

There is more to be said. I am not concerned about the job opportunities, what
I am pointing is that the analysis made by an analyst have a very short life.
Therefore, every time a new data has to be processed to find a new trend and
thus make a new model based on these new observation. But why does that
happen?

  

The main reason is that the variable we choose has uncountable factors
affecting them and when we analyse it, only a few are chosen. The nature of
the behaviour that we see in graph is impossible to be explained with 100%
confidence level. Otherwise, till now, we would have all truth and we would
have been able to predict almost everything, but NO, we haven't, and we won't,
but we will keep trying. May be that Super or Grand model is waiting to be
revealed. This is the similar case as with the grand
[M-theory](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M-theory) in Physics.

![](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SRH5c3ZJFMI/AAAAAAAAAOo/HqK5KiXRcek/s400/chess.jpg)

One of my favourite icon [Richard
Feynman](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_Feynman), a physicist, had told
that searching for a truth is like watching a chess game but with out knowing
the rules of the game, so with each new move, you find new rule and a new
truth. So after observing for a long time, you finally know the game, but in
real world the rules keep on changing and the move is rather very complex.
Therefore, for each new truth or rule to be discovered, an event has to occur,
an event whose probability of occurrence is almost ZERO. This makes the thing
even more interesting because we are almost uncertain if there is any new
truth to be discovered.

  

Did I sound very complex, I hope not. I was just trying to explain the nature
of analytics and nothing more. Lets me know how I did?

  

  

