---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-6820891355957400292"
title: "The Difference"
slug: "the-difference"
publishedDate: "2008-10-17T08:58:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SPjKfAL8gKI/AAAAAAAAAI0/4H8p2oVn-
fM/s400/difference.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SPjKfAL8gKI/AAAAAAAAAI0/4H8p2oVn-
fM/s1600-h/difference.jpg)

What kind of difference am I talking about? Well, one very important
difference between the under developed and the developed country. I came
across this difference long time back during my student years, but found it
very interesting when it was talked about in one of the debate, in BBC radio.
The difference lies in perspective of the science student, in the developing
country and the developed country.  

  

The program in the BBC radio had very interesting point to make. They had two
teams of science student- one from UK and the other from some Asian country.
Both of them were asked why they chose to study science. Remarkably the views
were very very different. And off-course it had lot to do with the economic
conditions of the country.

  

The students from under developed country told that, they hope to bring the
changes in the country, by pursuing science. Some wanted to be engineers, some
doctors and some wanted to go to medicine. In one view, it seems very likely
that they would think that opting science would really help their country to
grow.

  

On the other hand, the student from the developed country had never thought of
it that way. They were studying science merely because they were interested in
the subject.

  

Now here is the big difference, isn't it? So this is how young minds of
different continents think. So.....seriously, does taking a science subject
help you to over come the difficulties of your country. I really want to get
to the bottom this is discussion.

  

Some of my observations goes in this way. Many science student in under
developed country, do their further studies in foreign country and very rarely
do we find them returning to their home land. Hmmm. Development! Where did
that go? But it doesn't happen this way always and I am not blaming anyone.

  

The main problem lies when young mind start getting deeper into their studies.
As they go further, they find themselves entangled in the mystery of their
field. They go further into the field rather than their vision. In other
words, they get overwhelmed by the depth of knowledge. So knowing becomes more
important than applying the known knowledge. Nothing wrong with going deeper
with knowledge, just know when to act when you have it all.  

  

Therefore, its not the field that you choose that is going to help you help
the country. Instead, its your vision that is going to help. What do you
really want to do with your knowledge, is more important than what you want to
study. Being practical with your knowledge is what I was trying to tell so
far.

  

So this difference between the beliefs has really something to tell us about
the way we decide what we want to study and why. So if you really want to help
try being practical.

