---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-4404349174203692452"
title: "Twitter Analysis I (Twitin)"
slug: "twitter-analysis-i-twitin"
publishedDate: "2009-03-13T04:09:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SbpR6WgMPoI/AAAAAAAAAiM/VD6EKXCiX-s/s400/TweetsVsFollowers.jpg)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SbpR6WgMPoI/AAAAAAAAAiM/VD6EKXCiX-s/s1600-h/TweetsVsFollowers.jpg)

Well, this is going to be an interesting post. For some time, [InRev
](http://www.in-rev.com/)team has been very popular in social media through
[www.buzzom.com.](http://www.buzzom.com/) The concept of buzzom (Twitin) is to
increase the user experience in social media and understand the market and
behaviour of people. We have started with twitter, as it is the most [popular
social media](http://www.dmwmedia.com/news/2009/03/12/analysis:-twitter-
facebook-or-google-killer%3F).

  

With increasing number of users and the extending network, it is very
difficult to understand how the network is growing and on what basis. To
understand the user and the network of twitter, we have started analysing the
available data, which has been retrieved by using [twitter
API](http://apiwiki.twitter.com/).

  

Total record number retrieved = 2598

Some of the records were invalid and had to be rejected using simple filtering
method.  

  

Now let me explain the above graph.

X-axis = Number of followers  

Y-axis = Number of tweets (Please click the graph to see a large image.)

  

The dense spot at the graph shows the place where a normal twitter user are
located. These may be marketers, web designer, household business people,
friend circle or may be someone who has just started using twitter.

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SbpaBu0Y9hI/AAAAAAAAAiU/sUZjOKJv8qA/s400/TweetsVsFollowers1.jpg)

  

So you can normally see that the people with more followers tend to tweet less
than the people with less number of followers. This is made more clear if you
see the extremes of the axis.

  

People like [@BBCCLick](http://twitter.com/BBCClick) and
[@coldplay](http://twitter.com/coldplay) tend to tweet less though they have a
very large followers. The other extremes are
[@huffpost](http://twitter.com/huffpost) and
[@foxnews](http://twitter.com/foxnews) who tend to tweet at the range of per
hour and per minute basis. Why these contradiction?

  

People with large number of tweets and less number of followers usually means
there is a group of small community who tend to use twitter as a means to talk
to each other, thus they chat more often than others. But, in case of Fox
news, its not a small community but rather seems to have followed the board
cast system to send news. I can't say with certainty but, the number of
followers are not so huge as that of BBC, may be due to the irritation by
their flooding tweets.

  

On the other hand, people with many followers are mainly superstars and
celebrities like [@coldplay ](http://twitter.com/coldplay)and
[@DaveJMathews,](http://twitter.com/DaveJMatthews) they tend to tweet less but
have many listeners. Also, news channels like
[@cnnbrk](http://twitter.com/cnnbrk) and
[@BBCClick](http://twitter.com/bbcclick) seems to have understood that
flooding with too many tweets is not going to work.

  

This analysis forces me to think if there could be any twitter user which
could lie on the right hand side of the graph, with highest tweet. Hmm, won't
that be too irritating to all the followers. I would assume that given a time
period, most people would always be under the hyperbolic curve, which seems
very likely. Even if someone tries to be that position, he/she will surely be
pulled back. It is natural tendency. Time series analysis might prove that.
(Lets wait :))  

  

Let me share a detail table, you can make out on your own:

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/Sbpmwyon8wI/AAAAAAAAAic/BELTgd8dIqc/s400/table1.png)

  

So, how to conclude? Well, twitter is a very open society where people share
their views, some come to listen, some come to talk, some to argue and some to
just pass time. Its a virtual space where people exist . Many institutes have
utilized this platform, by advertising or sending awareness program.
Basically, its us - the people of this world.

  

May be a more in depth analysis is required, so that each individual can grow
and benefit from this vast media which remains there. Its a huge market and I
am eagerly waiting for a big possibilities.

  

My analyses are based on the small amount of data which could be bias. But,
[InRev](http://www.in-rev.com/)[ ](http://www.in-rev.com/)is working hard
enough to bring unbiased analyses and result. There will be more post on the
way, from which everyone would benefit.

  

Some interesting post on social media:  
  
1\. [Online Social
Theory](http://engineeringanalytics.blogspot.com/2009/01/social-theory-in-
online-community.html)

2\. [Add me as Friend](http://engineeringanalytics.blogspot.com/2008/12/add-
me-as-friend.html)

3\. [Choice to be
made](http://engineeringanalytics.blogspot.com/2008/12/choice-to-be-made.html)  
4\. [Increasing Twitter
experience](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2009/03/twitter-experience-
bettered-inrev.html)  
5\. [82 days with twitter](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2009/02/82-days-
with-twitter-10-thousand.html)  
6\. [Unfollow and Follow](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2009/02/twitter-
why-unfollow-who-dont-follow.html)  

  

