---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-6365992331948206148"
title: "TwitIn"
slug: "twitin"
publishedDate: "2009-03-17T03:07:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

Its been more than months since the launch of the
[TwitIn](http://www.buzzom.com/), and we are already getting excessive hits
per day. That's awesome for a start. The tool has been getting a huge response
from the twitter users and other web experts. It is a great feeling and we are
hoping to bring a better service and innovation through it.  

  

There were many obstacle to be faced, but each difficulties made the
application more better and stable. But, like all the tools and software and
hell lot of technology out there, there is one thing that you have to
understand, that is learning to use it efficiently and productively. If you
don't then its useless. So let me explain what buzzom is?  

  

[BUZZOM](http://www.buzzom.com/) is a word which identifies itself with the
buzz on the social media. It is a place where the online social media meet and
where a sense is made out of social activities. Lets go on then:

  

InRev TwitIn Intro :

  

![](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/Sb-
NKgaXz0I/AAAAAAAAAjM/aVcknhTf5EQ/s400/twitin.jpg)

  

This is the main panel of InRev TwitIn. Here you, can see the three most
important command that will increase your social network from hundred to
thousands.

  

Flush : This removes 50 followers which are not following you.

Grow : This will add 25 people to your following list.

Reciprocate : This will allow you to follow back 50 people who have followed
you.

  

Remember that when you are "following", the tool does not randomly select
people, but instead looks at the people who has the most tendency to follow
you and his/her proximity with your network. The only reason you want to
follow is because you expect him/her to [follow you
back](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2009/02/twitter-why-unfollow-who-
dont-follow.html), isn't it?

  

Ok, don't get too excited and run to grow. :) Growth is a steady process and
if you try shortcuts you are gone. TwitIn will ease your painstaking work of
following each individual and removing them from your list. Have patience.
There are certain rules and restriction in twitter which you must understand
before you use this tools. This restricts automated program from following too
many people at once. And we have followed these rules too, as it controls the
flow in media and not overcrowd it.

  

What is InRev Score?

![](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/Sb-
c-b4uG-I/AAAAAAAAAjU/2QIc4pagqCw/s400/twitcount.jpg)

These are few indicators that the analytics team in InRev has come up with,
which scores your behaviour in twitter. Let me explain few.  

  

The Influence score shows how often people are following you, though you may
not be following them. Some twitter user like [BBC
](http://twitter.com/BBCClick)or [CNN ](http://twitter.com/cnnbrk)has a very
high influence ratio, you can understand why, because they are really very
trusted media which people follow.

  

The Tweet Efficiency shows the efficiency of your tweets. For example, if you
are talking to stones or statues or non-living things, which do not respond,
then surely your words are wasted. Similar thing can happen in social media,
people might be tweeting a lot but no one may be listening or responding,
these help to identify fraud cases and so on.

  

Scoring Methodology

  

InRev Twitin Score is a Absolute Score built by using Behavior [Model
](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2008/10/5-steps-to-build-predictive-
model.html)Technology. It is not built on relative performance of different
Twitter Accounts. It uses business rules for measuring the relevance of the
individual parameters subject to few assumptions.

  

Major highlights of the score:

  

1\. Score is the combination of Influence Ratio, ReTweet Ratio and Tweet
Efficiency.

2\. Less Tweets is treated as a newbie account.

3\. Very high Tweets is taken as fraud action. (other parameters are also
taken under consideration.)

4\. No Tweet is taken as inactive account.

  

So that's the end of it. [InRev team](http://www.in-rev.com/aboutus.html) is
innovating with new ways to improve the [social
media](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_media) experience. The only way it
can be done is by communicating with the users and identifying their needs. So
give us your feedback and comments, this will help us improve the tool and
make it better.  

  

Other links: [82 days with
Twitter](http://analyticsbhups.blogspot.com/2009/02/82-days-with-
twitter-10-thousand.html).

