---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3303411020743482234"
title: "Why Predict?"
slug: "why-predict"
publishedDate: "2008-09-22T02:47:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

[![](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsjJVuDeoI/AAAAAAAAALs/CyamI6LK9sM/s320/dice_stocks.jpg)](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_UYUaEitRq54/SQsjJVuDeoI/AAAAAAAAALs/CyamI6LK9sM/s1600-h/dice_stocks.jpg)

[Einstein ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Einstein)once argued that it
is possible to predict the future outcome, with 100% accuracy, of any event if
the initial values of all the variables were known. But its this very
particular requirement that makes the task impossible, the task of having to
know the values of all the variables.  

  

There is a theory contradicting the above statement, and its call [Principle
of Uncertainty](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uncertainty_principle). It states
that it is impossible to measure the accurate value of any system. The reason
mainly being that the more your try to be accurate, the more you tend to
affect the system's parameter. It was mainly argued that this was due to the
imperfections in the measuring instrument. No measuring instruments are
accurate and this seems to be the undeniable truth. For example, its quite
impossible to measure the flow of the river without affect the flow itself.

  

Therefore, many complicated mathematical theorems have been established to
predict the values instead of measuring it. But, there is problem with this
method: Its only a prediction, giving you not the accurate values but the
probability on the values. And this seems to be a new age of interpreting the
values, that is, in terms of percentile. For example, what is the probability
that it will rain tomorrow. Its a simple question that can be answered by
observing a clouds or analyzing the previous data on the behavior of the
seasons and finally you may say there is 50-50 chance for raining tomorrow.

  

So how do we predict? First we have to understand the system that you are
trying to predict. If its a weather, you have to have the models of your
environment like location of clouds, values of temperature and so on. Once you
have almost complete model on your environment, you can make few prediction
basis on your analysis of the data provided. Therefore, the data processing
and data interpretation seems to be the core of predicting the values of the
quantities.

  

Can we justify our predictions? Yes, we can justify it because we know that in
a system, variables are dependent with each other and further there is an
underlying relationships between them. This relationship between the variables
can be found out by collecting data and applying statistical tools like
correlation and so on.

  

But there are many problems with this method so it is not that easy to create
a model of any system. Lot of details has to be considered, like the source of
the data and its authenticity. Also, the data must be collected in such a way
that it won't disturb the nature of the system. For example, if you want to
get a detail on popularity of the brand then its very likely that the people
will not be able to give their own choice. It may be because he/she can be
influenced by others choice. This is only a very few problems associated with
data collection. So its another field of research, how to get an exact data,
also don't forget the uncertainty principles.

We will be off course talking a lot on the statistical tools that can be used
to model the system. But for now it is reasonable to say that "Its better to
predict accurately then to measure inaccurately".

