---
postId: "tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-8061911113731935185.post-3300864606853170417"
title: "Wolfram is NOT Google"
slug: "wolfram-is-not-google"
publishedDate: "2009-05-16T11:59:00.000-07:00"
layout: "post"
---

There I was going through a magazine. As I was flipping the pages, a complex
looking image caught my eye. Underneath it was written:  

  

The much anticipated computing engine Wolfram Alpha will be officially
launched on 18 May.

  

Suddenly, it struck to me, ya its this new search engine they are talking
about in the Internet. Hmm. Getting all excited I started googling it. Soon I
was buried into reading blogs and reviews from the people. After an hour, I
found out that its barely anything like Google, its not even a search engine.

  

So what is it? They were calling it a [computational
knowledge](http://www.downloadsquad.com/2009/03/10/wolfram-to-launch-
computational-knowledge-engine). Wait a minute, how do you compute a
knowledge. Knowledge is the facts and figures, and logical understanding of
this universe and society that we have earned. How can it be calculated? There
were few facts I found interesting:

  

1\. Wolfram does not have database of web pages like
[Google](http://www.google.com/) does.

2\. Wolfram neither has the resources of knowledge like [Wikipedia
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page)has.

  

So, on what basic does it calculate the knowledge. The answer was, the
backbone of WolframAlpha - [Mathematica
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematica)and [NKS
](http://www.wolframscience.com/)(New Kind of Science). Well I have not used
Mathematica but have been knowing about its existence since my engineering
days. I was more familiar with the [MATLAB
](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MATLAB)instead. After seeing through couple of
demos and more article. I somehow seemed to have grasped the idea of
Computational Knowledge.

  

You see Mathematica is a huge resource of mathematical functions and thousands
of models of our natural science. It has a tremendous implication in all
fields of engineering and financial problem solving. So it seemed very natural
that such resources could be used to calculate the factual knowledge.

  

There was one example given in the article:

  

When you ask the distance between the moon and the earth, traditionally the
answer would be searched from the vast resources of text people have put into
the web. But here, it does nothing of such thing, instead it seems to have a
mathematical equation which calculates the distance between the moon and earth
and gives it to you. That sounds super cool. So all kinds of factual knowledge
can be calculated. That is what I seem to have grasped of the new
[WolframAlpha](http://www.wolframalpha.com/).  

  

So instead of showing you the way to the answer, it gives you one. But only
certain kinds of question is allowed. As I was making my understanding clear
on this new buzz. I started getting goosebumps... Wait.. and it was not a fear
but more of an excitement. I think I can tell what is it or share.

  

Suddenly I realised that computation knowledge is something that
[InRev](http://www.in-rev.com/) is also working on. Since the start of our
company, we have been working in a way of bringing factual information to the
people rather than a huge bulk of data. We want to answer people's question
and let them make efficient decision. To clarify, the whole propose of
[F-Cube](http://www.f-cube.us/) (our economic reporting portal) is to forecast
the economic scenario to people in free. The only way to forecast is to
compute what we know with the [mathematical
model](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_model) of economy. That is
computational knowledge, I grinned to myself. We also are working on creating
a library of models to fit into the system.

  

The philosophy seemed quite similar, add value to the data by providing
relevant information. This is why I got to excited. Hope I was able to explain
what computation knowledge is. Please provide your comments. I have to be sure
of it :).

